itloll Name of the book: Corona Crisis in Economy

Copyright: to the author (use of any part of the book in whole or in part without permission of the author
Can't be done. It can be used for academic studies (thesis, research paper etc.)

Publisher: Author himself
Version: 2077, July

Price: This PDF version is free, but a contribution to the education of children with disabilities
If you want to do Rs. 150.., Iseva Account: 9851057966
To be provided for children's education is.)

Author Contact:
Budhanilkanth-10, Kapan, Baluvakhani, Kathmandu
Email: gbudhathoki@gmail.com

Contact Phone: 9851057966 Tekhak's statement

The new corona virus (Covid-19) that emerged from the Chinese city of Wuhan in December 2019
It has had a profound impact on the global economy. International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank,
OECD, CPR and other world economic organizations, their projections on the impact of this
Or even the estimates have been changed from time to time. How and how deep in the Nepalese economy
It is not yet possible to say whether it will have an effect. Different financial institutions
To enter the economy of Nepal He has done some position papers, rapid study evaluations and surveys on impact. Often
Those studies are prepared in English language and not integrated, Corona will affect the socio-economic field
There is still some confusion about the impact.

One thing I want to make clear here is that this book uses econometric methods or surveys
Even the extracts are not prepared to be presented but the analyzes I have done at various times and I am involved
National-end on the impact of Corona on low turnover digital newspapers of national bodies
News materials prepared on the basis of the report on the effects of the corona virus in Nepal
An integrated book form has been given for initial assessment. It is from all scholars
Acting as a reference material for the general public and about the financial impact of Corona in the future
I believe it will be helpful in preparing the papers.

As in my previous two books, constructive feedback is expected from here.
Gajendra Budhathoki

Budhanilkanth-10, Kapan, Kathmandu the role

Many countries and regions of the world have experienced great ups and downs at different times. 18 from 1914
The First World War that lasted until Europe, America, Africa and the Middle East (partially China and the Pacific Islands
destroyed the group). About one million soldiers of the participating countries died, more than two million soldiers
More than 7.7 million soldiers were lost if wounded. In World War II which started in 1939 and ended in 45
70 countries participated. More than 60 million people died. A power struggle in world history
That level of human beings The loss of life, personal and public property, business, and business is almost unimaginable to the world
forget it However, some of the world's non-combatants used everything from rifles to nuclear weapons
There was no significant impact on the daily life of the nation or geography, nor was there any damage.

Until today there was no such event on earth, which stopped the whole world and regions. Year 2019
The novel coronavirus (Covid-19) that arose from Wuhan, China on the last day of the volcano
Now the world is burning. The world economy has stopped. Production and Marketing series of
It's broken. Business has become fourfold. It has broken relationships between people.
People are forced to stay where they were. The earth has not been able to connect with the sky.
Every country, every region is raging—no weapons, no anger, no frenzy of power, but thousands daily
People are dying, millions of people are sick. Relatives were able to cremate the deceased
Neither has been able to take care of the patient.

This extreme situation has pushed the world economy into the abyss. Rich countries of the world big

They are trying to make the daily life of the citizens easier by bringing the package of economic revival, of the country They are trying to make the economy sustainable. Nepal is also fighting with the world along with Covid-19
is Various world economic organizations including International Monetary Fund, World Bank, global, regional and
Projections or estimates about the impact of even one country are being made public. They are theirs
The results of studies and research are bound to change in a short period of time. with the world
There is still confusion about how deep the impact of Covid-19 will be on Nepal's economy.

Economic journalism for a decade and a half c Gajendrasingh Budhathoki, who came here, is in the middle of this situation
A collection of articles prepared by conducting various surveys and studies through virtual media 'Economy
Corona Kahar' has been given the title of the book. This book deals with Nepal's economy along with its components
Industry, trade, business, market employment, human psychology and daily life, poverty, national income,
It is believed that it will be useful to study and easily understand the estimation of damages caused in tourism

am
0

- DR Acharya, Editor (newsbusiness.com) Subject list

wa title

Section-A, Analyses

1.

9.

10.

What will change in the world structure after covid 19?
Declining Economy and Temple Psychology

Corona has shrunk the Nepali economy like this

A speedbreaker in rapid economic growth

Epidemics and disaster risk to poverty

8.4 million Nepalis falling into extreme poverty

Covid increasing poverty and food crisis

Crisis in foreign employment and national income

A quarter of a million Nepalese are at risk of extreme crisis

Crisis in Nepali media

Section-B, News

12.
13.
14.
15,
16.
17.

18.

55 percent due to house arrest The Nepalese lost their livelihood
A package of more than 3.5 trillion is needed for the revival of the economy
24 billion damage to Nepal's tourism due to Covid-19

Nepal's economic growth rate is only 0.5 percent: World Bank

1.2 trillion dollar loss in world tourism due to corona effect

World economic growth will shrink by 4.9 percent

Due to covid-19 loss in the world economy up to 88 trillion dollars: ADB 19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

28.

"World economy in Great Recession, shrinks by 3 percent"

It is estimated that Covid-19 will cause a loss of up to 17 billion in the Nepalese economy
Nepal's economic growth rate between 1.5 to 2.8 percent: World Bank
Remittance-dependent households in crisis: World Bank

Remittances into Nepal will shrink to 6 billion dollars

Remittances into Nepal will decrease by 14 percent: World Bank

37 million Nepalis in job crisis due to house arrest

Nearly 8.4 million Nepalis 'overwhelmed' by house arrest

The biggest cost of covid-19 A. Impact on Bagmati Province
The finance minister wrote a letter to the IMF asking for additional assistance  Section-A
Analyses

What would change in the end of the world after 19?

Major Economic Forecasts, Differing Assessments
Percentage changes at annual rates

 

 

 

 

World Advanced economies Developing economies United States
2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 202 .
IMF October 2019 3.4% 3.6% 1.7% 1.6% 4.6% 48% 2.1% 1.7%
IMF April 2020 58 -6.1 45 -1.0 6.6 5.9 47
IMF June 2020 5.4 -8.0 48 -3.0 5.9 -8.0 45
OECD Nov 2019 29 3.0 1.6 1.7 4.0 4.0 2.0 2.0
OECD March 2020 24 3.3 0.8 1.2 NA NA 1.1 2.1
OECD June 2020 single Co) 5.2 -7.5 48 46 5.6 -7.3 4.1
OECD June 2020 double \ -7.6 28 -9.3 22 -6.1 3.2 -8.5 1.1
World Bank January 2020 25 2.6 1.4 1.5 4.1 43 1.8 1.7
World Bank June 2020 5.2 42 -7.0 3.9 25 46 6.1 4.0

 

 

Source: World Economic Outlook, various issues, International Monetary Fund; OECD Economic Outlook, various
issues, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Global Economic Prospects, various issues,
World Bank.

The Noble Corona Virus (Cov Not affected due to D-19).
There are hardly any areas. Basically it became a problem of serious nature related to human health
Even with house arrests introduced by governments around the world to control it
Due to the measures, a new and deepest phase of the Great Depression in the world economy
It is now clear to come. Many world-renowned economists have their differences
With the uncontrolled expansion of this virus in research papers, the current global economic recession past 150
It will be the biggest recession in years and it will cause the global economic no Creating a stir in the composition
It has already started to be mentioned. The prevailing financial calculation formulas are not applicable at this time.
Because this health crisis will never be solved and how it will affect the world economic cycle No economist can accurately predict which components will be hit harder
have not done Like an amoeba, its shape is expanding every day, changing form
It has been difficult to accurately estimate the impact that can have on the variables of the economy. At first it traveled
And it was said that the service sector will be in crisis because it has the most impact on tourism activities, then
Productivity driven by China due to impact on labor availability and supply management
The area is said to be affected. Then the world's leading Ubho Its market in America and Europe
Another conclusion drawn is that global industrial activity is in crisis as the infection spreads
. To overcome this global crisis, the major developed and developing countries are reviving their economies
And brought multibillion-dollar packages to the rescue, the foundations of global capital markets notwithstanding
It is shaken. Now the crisis and demand and supply in the next phase of the production cycle
Global food security crisis is created due to crisis in management
The organization has already warned.

Only critics Globalization and Capitalism followed after the 1990s
They are saying that the economy is on the verge of crisis because of this. This is Francis Fukuyama's 'End of
It is a concept similar to history or to Patrick J. Deneen's "Why Liberalization Field". Meanwhile
The world economy has adopted more generosity than expected. Open goods, services and people in the global economy
The flow proceeded so uncontrollably that it never seemed to have any final limit
Didn't even think. The world was pulled by capital and money. Human emotions, social emotions, family and
The feelings of relationship gradually faded away. Original works, traditions, skills, Raithane food, food all
Overwhelmed, faded away. The world community itself became dependent on imported rituals. People, things, animals
The spread of diseases and infections also increased with globalization. Some by desire, some by accident
Niyatbas, a region, country, continent or geography within the environment, poisonous and harmful insects, animals,
Weeds, plants got to another country and they affected the local races and species Encroachment started.

 

In the blind rush of development, we have caused immense damage to the environment. Because, above the human race
He was determined to reach. The world was determined to make itself better than others. Something else
If you don't win, your original identity is lost, your inner strength areas are destroyed, weak
Be it, but have to go to the other's equal race. It made us both strong and weak.
We learned what we needed, we also learned what we didn't need. We have lost our originality, the identity of others We hugged The race was so intense that we could not back down. It is the highest development in the world
Coming to the point, we do injustice to the earth and the animals, plants and animals that have the same rights as us
We did. Human beings used to think that we have only things to gain and nothing to lose. by one
He fought a war to win over the other. They fought from small regions, groups to nations. First and second
What was the world war for? For the accumulation of their power, for the accumulation of capital, only a few people and
The hero of the nation And to show. Even now, the war continues but invisibly. Arm the great nations
They make, store and sell. 18 trillion 22 billion US dollars worldwide in 2018 alone
Weapons have been bought and sold. Furthermore, powerful nations have used nuclear bombs, chemical bombs, and biological weapons
It has already started to be made. A recently released long story about the use of biological weapons in Syria
The study report proved it.

To make people realize the injustice done to the earth, to nature and to themselves at one time or another
it's time What was it? Eastern philosophy and Sanatan Hinduism believe in the end of the Kali Yuga
do It speaks of the end of time. Time (yuga) talks about change. No cataclysm for this
Or imagines destruction. In today's integrated world, the topic of the third world war may be considered secondary
It was, because it was considered impossible for the nations to be divided into one or two poles, as in the First and Second World Wars
was Except for small countries like Nepal as an exception, almost all the players in the world economy
Not in a different way They were considered to have become powerful. However, with the new corona virus epidemic, everyone
Standing on the same surface.

This global health crisis told everyone in clear words - you are not powerful. everyone's
The strength is the same. 1.8 million in more than 200 countries of the world till 12:00 PM on May 1, 2077
54 thousand 174 people were infected with this virus and 1 lakh 14 thousand 291 people
He had died. 560,000 in America, one of the most powerful countries in the world
22,000 deaths from infection, 100,000 in France Infection in 2,000, 14,000 deaths, 100,000 in Germany
27,000 infections, 3,000 deaths, 84,000 infections in the UK, 10,000 deaths, 82 in China
3,300 people have died of the infection. India is a neighboring country in a power struggle
Also, 9 and a half thousand have been infected and 330 have died. Spain, Italy, with high death rates,
If the statistics of Iran, Turkey and other countries are also kept together, the situation looks even worse. That is, it did not recognize a rich nation, nor a country with many weapons, many soldiers, nor a religion
He knew, he didn't know the caste, he only knew people, he knew people's weaknesses.

In order to avoid this terrible epidemic, the lockdown and infection that China adopted at the beginning
The expanding area is declared a "hotspot" and the policy of stopping the movement (Shield) in the world
The countries where the infection is spreading will gradually spread and then return to humans
Awakened. From the corona virus epidemic Declare by the big nations to avoid
When people were under house arrest, they were able to give time to themselves and their families in the hectic life
are With fewer vehicles, fewer airplanes, fewer industries, the earth has a chance to breathe.
Gradually, the pollution in the lower surface of the earth is decreasing. The traffic of people will soon decrease
With spring, the plants have started growing and flourishing. with little forest except in the main urban areas
Wildlife has started to be seen in the connected villages and towns. Covid-19 has us somewhere else
in nature Didn't you say back?

Economists estimate that this health crisis may take at least 3 months to a year to resolve
have done In the meantime, the assessment that there may be changes in the existing trade and economic structure of the world
has been done If so, the 21st century as mentioned earlier will be an Asian-led economy
That theory will change with factory activity restarted by China in America and Europe
Do you give any support to the industrial activity that is shrinking due to the increasing infection? right now
Say this There is no end. The most worrying thing is that it is now global again
There is a danger that the gap between the haves and the haves will become more intense.

 

Even now with the lockdown, the lower poor class and the middle class around the poverty line of food security
is at risk. Global agricultural activity is driven not by large-scale producers, but by small farmers
They have been coming. In agriculture-dependent countries like Nepal, small farmers with small land holdings
The role has become more and more. Even now, the rural people of Nepal are under house arrest in the area
Small farmers have maintained agricultural activities such as bringing in wheat crops and sowing paddy. over there
India's agricultural sector, which has a larger agricultural population than Nepal, is also in crisis because of this.
There have been reports that the crops of the farmers could not be taken to the market. of house arrest
As the situation progresses, there is a danger that this problem will become more serious. Nepal is not self-sufficient in agriculture. in the year 1 trillion 95 billion worth of agricultural products are bought and consumed, a large part of which comes from India. This position
If it is not resolved soon, another food crisis will arise, and it is time for governments to think about that.
Needless to say, as soon as the food supply cycle is affected, its price will increase and this is the year 2010/11
Warnings have been issued to reach the level. Income from non-engagement in regular occupation, business and agriculture
When the price of food also started to rise, it hit the poor and the lower middle class
should be Its solution Even states should not delay in thinking.

(Nagari Daily, Ray Baisakh 2077) Khekendo bharthatanra a mandiye psychology

Indian author and former minister Shashi Tharoor recently tweeted a cartoon, at the top of which
A graph of a declining economy is shown, where a man is completely depressed. That's right
A temple has been built by carving the same graph under it and the man is jumping up and down with joy. This falling Indian
In terms of the economy, the recent Ram made by Prime Minister Narendra Damodardas Modi in Ayodhya
Even though it is satirical about the foundation stone of the temple, it is a reference to Nepal also goes to match to a large extent
.

Khadgaprasad Sharma Oli after the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) won the majority in Chait 2074
It has been three years since he became the Prime Minister. During this three-year period, the Oli government's economy of the country
In the social field, no significant progress could be achieved. In the area of ​​economic development
When questioned about the weaknesses of the government, people from the government side always give the same rote answer.
Don't see, the map with Limpiyadhura has been released. Why the government could not show effective work?-
“Knox Released.' What did the government miss to make people feel differently? “Map released.' financial
What mega projects have been started or completed to raise the growth rate - "The map has been released."

According to a "rough calculation" prepared by the Ministry of Finance in the last financial year 2076/77
7 billion 130 million from disbursement, money transfer, financial transfer etc. for all three levels, Covid-19
66 crores from the fund and 1.16 billion rupees for purchase of medicinal materials and 9.16 billion rupees
It has been spent to control Corona.

That's not enough Prime Minister Oli is now on the Modipath. Whatever happened to him in the thori of Chitwan
Ram Janmabhoomi has to be made. He recently called the representative of Thori to Baluwatar and said-
Are you looking for the evidence of Ram Janmabhoomi thousands of years ago? You immediately build the Ram temple
Continue the work. What is this stubbornness? That is to say, people who have spiritual beliefs
They say, "Rama resides in particles". Ram's temple was built not only in Thori, but also in Jhapa, Syangja
It also happened, but it also has a certain period of time. which Priority is given to what to do in time. The whole world is currently suffering from the epidemic of Corona Virus (Covid-19). Long term
In June, because of the lockdown, people's lives were affected (especially the government's revenue collection).
In short, from July when the total lockdown was opened; Since then, the number of infected people has increased at an alarming rate.
District administration for house arrests and prohibitory orders of the federal government
Authority is delegated to offices, more than 200 of which are administrative offices
Prohibition orders can be issued in areas where infection has been observed. although Pi, Kathmandu Valley in a frightening manner
Except that the administration offices of the three districts will stop their limited services as the infection continues to spread
They could not make any concrete decision, assuming that when the CDO Sabs are safe, the residents of the district will be safe
happened

About 6% of the gross domestic product (GDP) in the economy due to the covid-19 pandemic and house arrest
It has lost 8 percent since.

Health Minister Bhanu Bhakta Dhakal is very poor when it comes to infection prevention and control
Presenting, when sir Those who can't see the work of the car are said to have cataracts, sometimes the government
They say that the opinions of those who criticize have deteriorated. Government to do any concrete work during the last three years
It is not only the citizens of other powers, but most of the major leaders of the CPN themselves
They have been criticizing. Colleagues within their own party, even religious leaders of the government
While being widely criticized for showing inaction, Prime Minister Oli said from a collection of his speeches
He is busy writing a self-praise book and writing a self-praise book s. His own style
In addition, Health Minister Dhakal also released a book on the government's success in controlling Corona
Well, under the leadership of Maniliun Dhakal, Nepal has produced a vaccine against Corona, which is great for the world
Contribution feat |

The corona epidemic that has spread worldwide is due to the current Oli government's inaction
Concealment, cover-up of irregularities, indiscriminate recruitment of pickpockets and excuses for concealment of criticism.
has reached In the name of corona virus control, where, how, under what heading is being spent
transparent information There is no flow. A "Rough Account" prepared by the Ministry of Finance
According to the last financial year 2076/77 for all three levels of withdrawal, money transfer, financial transfer
7 billion 13 million from among others, 66 million from the Covid-19 fund and 1 for the purchase of medicinal materials 9.16 billion rupees out of 1.6 billion rupees have been spent to control Corona. From the Corona fund
Funds are still being released in the name of quarantine and isolation center management.

Due to the house arrest imposed from Chait 11th to July 5th to prevent the spread of the corona virus epidemic
Various national and international organizations that have had a profound impact on the economic and social sector of Nepal
A summary of the studies is seen from the analysis. In the last financial year 2076/77, the government 8.5
It was estimated that the economic growth rate of percent will be achieved, which is Madh Coming up to the periodic review
It was estimated that only 7 percent would be achieved. However, global economic institutions on average
They came saying that it will be only 6 percent. With the increased uncertainty due to the corona virus epidemic, the international
Monetary Fund (IFF), World Bank, OECD, Asian Development Bank (ADB), Center for Economic
International Economic Organizations including Policy Research (CEPR)
Periodic revisions have been made in the scenarios. The global projections made by these institutions, are very low
developed root Average based on estimates for the UK and revised estimates for South Asia
In the last fiscal year 2076/77 (year 2020), the average growth rate of Nepal is 0.5 percent
Initial estimates range from exponential to 1 percent.

0 aaa ul @

a SE

Lepalparacar 8.5 (7% of reviews)

     

IMF (April) 6% 2.5% 6.5%

IMF (May, 2020) 5.7% 1% 6.5% 3.5%
World Bank, (Needgi) 6.4% 1.8% 6.5% 2.1%
World Bank, (July) 6.4% 0.5% 6.5% -2.8%
(Downside)

ADB (April) 5.3% 2.3% 6.4% 3.2%
itera 6% -0.5-1% 6% 2-4%

source : World Bank, IMF, ADB / Author's calculations

 

Most independent economists are somewhat skeptical of the government's economic growth figures
They see visually. In this context, economist Dharma Paudel shared his experience on Facebook some time ago It was distributed in this way - Financial in the Rashtriya Panchayat during the time when Surya Bahadur Thapa was the Prime Minister
Growth data has to be submitted. After Thapa said that this figure is low, it is possible to increase it a little
Economists of the National Planning Commission spent the night running calculators and presented the figures
was done Last May, when the Central Statistics Department released the National Accounts data, the Finance Minister
Dr. Yuvraj Khatiwada's "Jodball" by pulling down the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 0.5 percent.
Heard that it showed 2.3 percent Be the same

Some economists estimate that about half of India's GDP was lost after the earthquake, followed by five months
Empirical evidence including that the economic embargo caused a loss of about 2 trillion rupees to the economy
Based on the evidence and the nature of this current lockdown and its multifaceted impact on the economy
It is estimated that the financial loss is equal to about one-third of the GDP
They estimate that the economic growth rate is incremental from 1.5 to 3.5 percent.
However, immediately after the great earthquake, economic crisis again Yaklap started, five months Indian
Despite the economic embargo, within a few months the economy recovered and returned to the status quo
Due to the economy's ability to float or bounce and our self-reliant character
The damage is estimated to be less than that of other economies in the world (including neighboring India).

 

One recently published by the United Nations Federal Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNCAP).
According to the report, the impact of the corona virus epidemic on the economic and social sector of Nepal Don't get out of it
A stimulus package equal to 9 percent of GDP is required for this
pointed out. Estimated GDP size of last financial year 2076/77 is 37 trillion 47 billion
Assuming Rs. 3 trillion 39 billion rupees, an economic recovery package will be required. In this
1 trillion 31 billion for economic rehabilitation (3.5 percent of GDP), 1 for social security
50 billion (4 percent of GDP) and 56.5 billion for public health infrastructure (1.5 percent of GDP) will require a package of Rs.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Package required for independent rehabilitation (percentage of cost GDP)

Economic Social Security Public cost

Restoring health infrastructure
. Bangladesh 5 3.5 2.5 11
[India 7 4 3 14
[Nepal (3.5 ¥ 1.5 g
Pakistan 2 3 2 7
Sri Lanka ee (0.5 2.5

Source: UNscape

 

 

 

Taking this data as a basis, the corona epidemic in the economy of Nepal is about 2 trillion 80 billion
It seems that there has been a direct loss of Rs. This is a direct loss of 7.5 percent of GDP. In this
22 lakh 70 thousand will lose their jobs due to house arrest and 21 lakh 50 thousand will be pushed into extreme poverty
The impact on Nepali people's lives (source: UNSCAP) and its impact on the overall economic and social sector
If we calculate the impact on a more detailed level, the overall economic damage may be greater than this. therefore
The economic growth rate is not only in the previous financial year, but also in the current financial year if this situation persists
There is a risk of shrinking around 2-3 percent in 2077/78 as well.

There are also differences in the assessment of poverty It is coming. After the earthquake, poverty in Nepal is 3 percent
Although accepting the fact that the point has increased informally, the government says that poverty has decreased
It has been mentioned in planning documents and other government reports. 21 percent at that time
The Central Statistics Department itself concluded that the number of Nepalis living below the poverty line has increased to 24 percent
Removed. In addition, the lowlands of Nepal due to the five-month-long Indian economic embargo
The population around the poverty line in 22 districts of the region and floods and landslides in 2074 and
It is not estimated how many of the similar population in 34 districts were pushed into poverty due to flooding.

The most vulnerable are the Micro, Small, Household and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).
There are those who operate and make a living from their employment. According to UNSCPA, MSMEs
Contributing 22 percent of Nepal's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and 23 percent to total employment
have come In a recent nationwide survey conducted by UNICEF and Sharecast Initiative Nepal, 55 percent of Nepalis
Due to long-term house arrest, 55 percent of Nepalis have lost their means of income and livelihood
have said. A sample survey of seven and a half thousand households across the country
It may not represent the population in crores, but the total population if the sample survey method is used
It is certain that house arrest has seriously affected half of them. 42 percent of those surveyed
He was running expenses by arguing with others who said This is a very vulnerable group.
Those who lost professions, businesses and jobs due to long-term house arrests were again pushed below the poverty line
. When adjusting all these data, Nepal is below the poverty line due to the Great Recession caused by Corona
It is estimated that the population exceeds 28 percent. As discussed above, these are only preliminary estimates.

The most vulnerable are the Micro, Small, Household and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).
There are those who operate and make a living from their employment. According to UNSCPA, MSMEs
Nepal contributing 22 percent of the country's gross domestic product (GDP) and 23 percent of total employment
have come Nepal Rastra Bank has recently completed the impact of Covid-19 on the Nepalese economy
According to the survey report, about 62 percent of such industries and businesses were closed during the lockdown period. of them
If Nepali economy does not move ahead immediately by making a comprehensive plan for revival
You will have to suffer its adverse effects for a long time.

(Luge Business - 29 July 2076) Nepalese economy has been shortened by Kohona

From the Noble Corona Virus (Covid-19), which was first seen in the city of Wuhan, China in 2019
Even if the infected countries are not immune. As of Monday morning of the voltmeter
According to statistics, 12 million 44 thousand people have been infected with this virus in 215 countries of the world
5 lakh 4 thousand people have died. The first corona virus was infected in Nepal last January
As of Sunday evening, 12 thousand 772 people have been infected, 28 of them
has died. It is minimal It is the condition during the test. The youth are demanding to increase the PCR test
They demonstrated on the streets. Experts are also suggesting to increase testing. Corona virus in Nepal
Lockdown was extended from Chait 11 to May 31 to prevent expansion, but its effectiveness
Without it, the infection spread. From June 1st, even if it is limited, most of them will fight
The situation is open, the markets are crowded. Industries have been opened, but back to the villages
The remaining laborers could not return due to non-operation of public transport no So industries
Only partially run.

The progress of the government is beginning to be seen. Government employees wearing umbrellas on the streets during the rainy season
Alkatra is pouring. In order not to freeze the budget, awareness conferences are being held in Zoom meetings
There are, whose budget is more likely to be equal to the expenses incurred in yesterday's hotel programs
is Revenue collection counters should be opened anyway for the government which is in crisis due to lack of revenue
There was a compulsion, that's why the lockdown was partially relaxed after June 1. covid- 19
Due to panic, all economic activities were stopped for 90 days. It is very less developed like Nepal
The impact on the country is very deep, which requires a separate comprehensive study. I of this analysis
I have resorted to five main study reports, the first by the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Recently published World Economic Outlook, Asian Development Bank (ADB) of Nepal
Report on Economic Situation, Economic Indicators Prepared by IMF for Nepal, Agriculture and Livestock
Ministry of Development, World Food Program and Household Survey by Australian Aid, International Labor Organization
(ILO) “Effect Study on Nepali Labor Market due to Covid-19” and Nepal Food
Food safety and risk monitoring by the Safety Monitoring System (NEXAP). Economic growth below 1 percent

According to the latest update of the World Economic Outlook published by the IMF, this year (No
2020) the world economy is expected to shrink by 4.9 percent. This economic contraction is still present
The biggest one is that it has seriously affected all areas of the world. Highly developed to least developed
Economic growth rates for all regions ranged from 1 percent to about 13 percent in the developed country group
It has been projected in the latest update of the IMF that it will be gradual. The IMF said “V
Sep's economic recovery It is estimated that the world economy will recover next year
will catch However, on the other hand, the OECD said that the recovery of the world economy is uncertain due to the double shock
It has been said. “According to the OECD Economic Outlook, lockdowns have doubled
In the context of the shock (double hit), the world economy will contract by 7.6 percent this year, of which
The organization predicts that the world economy will shrink by 11 percent in the fourth quarter of 2020 alone.
According to the OECD, the growth rate of the Group of 20 developed countries By 7.3 percent, OECD members
The country's growth rate will shrink by 9.3 percent. China among the non-OECD emerging economies
OECD's growth rate will shrink by 3.7 percent, India by 7.3 percent and Brazil by 9.1 percent.
The update is projected in the Economic Outlook. World economic including World Bank, OECD etc
Institutions call this year's recession the worst since the Great Depression of the 1930s
(The Great Depression) is a difference that the IMF has not experienced since World War II
To say the recession of nature has done

Globally, with the deepening of the Great Recession, the Nepali economy is going on a path of positive growth
That is no longer the case. Even if the government says that Nepal's fiscal year will be 2.3 percent this year
The baseline assumption was that the lockdown would last only till 15th Baisakh.
Globally, with the deepening of the Great Recession, the Nepali economy is going on a path of positive growth
That is no longer the case. The Central Statistics Department is the agency that keeps statistical records of the government itself
Director General Communicator With the extension of the lockdown, Nepal's growth rate may drop to zero
have said. Last April, ADB's Nepal office in three situations (normal, moderate and severe). Nepal's gross domestic product (GDP) was projected to decline by 1, 1.6 and 2 percent
. According to the IMF, the economic growth rate of Nepal will remain only 1 percent in the medium scenario (scenario two).
told. However, the update of the World Economic Outlook released by him is less
It is mentioned that the growth rate of developed countries will shrink from 1 to 2.2 percent.

Horrible unemployment

The biggest concern for Nepal now will be the dreaded unemployment. Agriculture and Livestock
Ministry, World Food Program (WFP) and 31 percent in a survey jointly conducted by Australian Aid
It has shown that Nepalis have lost their income. Among the participants in the study, 42 percent of Province 5
34% of Karnali and Sudurpaschim and 33% of Province 2 said that they had lost their income.
He said that he lost his income. 28 percent of Bagmati, 23 percent of Province 1 and 22 percent of Gandaki
He said that he lost his income.

Among those who lost their source of livelihood, one-fourth were daily wage earners and then more
Receive large numbers of migrant workers or remittances There are families. About 13 percent are immigrants
Workers or families receiving remittances have lost their source of livelihood due to the closure.

The situation is even more alarming if we compare it with the study of the International Labor Organization (ILO).
seems According to ILO's position paper on the impact on the labor market of Nepal, due to the lockdown
The employment of 37 million Nepalis is in crisis. 16 lakh to 20 in Nepal due to the current crisis
Millions of jobs have been disrupted immediately, where there is either total unemployment or temporary unemployment
and pay cuts It's done. According to the ILO, the construction, manufacturing (industrial) and commercial sectors
Four out of every five workers are at risk. According to the ILO, long-term lockdowns
The reason is 780,000 in the wholesale and retail sector, 446,000 in the industrial sector, construction
4 lakh 4 thousand, 2 lakh 11 thousand in the transport sector, 62 thousand related to housing and food services Activities and 83 thousand jobs in real estate, administrative and other service activities are in crisis
|

The World Bank said that while 2.8 million Nepalis are working abroad, due to the impact of Covid-19, labor income and
It has been informed that there is a crisis in the dependent households due to the sharp decline in remittances
. Various studies have shown that 6 lakh Nepalis are in labor crisis abroad, apart from India
be the number About 2 lakh Nepalis who are working in India have suffered many hardships during this lockdown period
have entered, the same number are stuck in India It is estimated to be sitting. From domestic to foreign
In the event that the laborers working at the destination return home in a hurry, their livelihood will be in trouble
has started Families living on remittance income and their main economic activity
Most of the lower middle class Nepalis who are considered as resources are now in crisis.

Families living on remittance income and considering it as the main source of financial transactions
Most of the lower middle class Nepalis are now in crisis.

Regular profession, business, work has stopped due to lockdown 17 lakhs due to loss of income
81 thousand 698 households are "over-affected" by the Nepal Food Safety Monitoring System (NESCAP).
Another study showed. This is 31.47 percent of the total number of households in the country. state wise
As- 3 lakh 27 thousand 736 families in province 1, 5 lakh 68 thousand 614 families in province 2,
3 lakh 69 thousand 500 families in Bagmati, 1 lakh 11 thousand 475 families in Gandaki, 1 in Province 5
83 thousand 969 families, 93 thousand 96 families in Karnali and 127 thousand 338 in Far West.
The study found that families are “overwhelmed There is

According to the latest census of 2068, considering 4.7 members per family, the corona virus epidemic
83 lakh 73 thousand 980 Nepalis due to house arrest imposed to prevent infection
"Overwhelmed". This is the number of people who work in the informal sector or are economically disadvantaged
Yes, to whom the government gave "relief" for a few days.

Compressed consumption Nepal's economy has been transformed into a consumption-oriented economy due to low production base
It's done. When they don't have enough income and their savings are running out, they resort to consumption
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, World Food has reduced spending, especially on nutritious food
The program and a household survey conducted by Australian Aid showed that. According to the study, 23 percent
Household food consumption has been found to be adequate. This has long-term effects on health and nutrition.
Especially the very poor families, who already have enough To spend on nutritious food due to lack of income
They could not, Corona-lockdown appeared as a great crisis for them.

A contraction in foreign trade

The impact of the global Great Recession was clearly reflected in Nepal's foreign trade. Current financial year 2076/77
In the first 11 months of 2018, Nepal's total foreign trade decreased by 14 percent. Only import business in it
It has decreased by 15.31 percent. In a consumption-oriented economy like Nepal, a decrease in imports has multiple meanings.
This shows that the purchasing power (PPP) of the citizens has decreased and the overall meaning Contractions in Tantra
It also says that it is coming. Domestic industrial activity has come to a standstill and imports have also declined by 15 percent
In this situation, wholesale and retail trade shrinks completely and this gradually slows down the expansion of the overall economy
Pushes towards the situation.

Crisis in agriculture

The government said that due to the lockdown, there will not be a big impact on agriculture, the agriculture minister came from abroad
And the one and a half million people back home produce more vegetables but only a little because they don't get the market
Although it is said that the vegetables are rotten, the real crisis in the agricultural sector has started to be seen. West of the country chief
Among the mango crops, armyworm has caused great damage to the corn. Abolition of District Agricultural Offices
As a result, the information system of the government has become fragmented, so accurate information about what and how much damage has been done
There is nothing that the government can give (it wants to hide everything). Agricultural Information System of Govt
How useless it is has been shown by the recent locust problem. Government officials
"The locust does not live in Nepal, it is eager to return to Rajasthan to lay its eggs, it is ready to go to Pakistan."
Hachuwa is giving an interview like this, he is supposed to be They have interviewed the chief. Total
In spite of the decrease in import trade, in the first 11 months of the current financial year, it is equal to 1 trillion 90 billion rupees
It seems that agricultural products are imported, while Nepali farmers fight against agricultural produce Due to non-consumption, losses of crores of rupees were incurred. 63 percent of the country's population is engaged in agriculture
A large population that is dependent and below the poverty line is also engaged in agriculture as it is related to agriculture
The impact is hard to gauge right now.

Based on the above data, the GDP of Nepal due to Covid-19
(GDP) loss of about 5 percent and due to this the population below the poverty line is 3 to 5
A preliminary estimate of the increase is around 10%.

(News Transactions, June 16, 2077) A Breakthrough in Rapid Growth

Global health crisis The new corona virus epidemic (Covid-19) has affected the economic system around the world
There can hardly be any doubt that the Great Depression was taken seriously. So far about the intensity of this effect
All estimates released are only basic estimates or projections. Both sides now
(Oxford and Cambridge) economists used different methods to analyze what the world economy had experienced before.
Or experienced all kinds of economic depression, hyperinflation, hyperinflation
(Stagnation) Or They are reviewing financial crises. Whatever the outcome, our generation
This is the biggest financial crisis the world has experienced since the 1990s
It has acted as a speed breaker to the rapid economic growth, from which the recovery has been restored.
It will take at least two-three years to a few decades for the global economy to get back on track.

The Prime Minister of the current government, Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli, is a master at making speeches by combining proverbs and sayings
Even the members of his cabinet, who are experts, said the same thing Mfuse should be talked about or not
More irritation to the citizens who are fed up with the government's jumso working style and to the government
Their intention to increase hatred is incomprehensible.

Government of Nepal to minimize the impact on the economy, especially its revenue collection
Saying that the manner in which the lockdown was opened hastily from 1st of July, the adverse effect of it is now
are beginning to appear. After the spread of Covid-19 at the community level in Birgunj and Biratnagar, along with Kathmandu
Even in busy and central urban areas Asan and Mahabuddh Now after seeing the covid-19 infection in the innings
Panic has spread everywhere. A large number of people are working on the front lines to control the Covid-19 epidemic
Policemen are now infected with Corona, and health workers in Pokhara and Biratnagar are also infected
is seen

On one side there is this situation, on the other side irresponsible from Health Minister Bhanubhakta Dhakal to Health Secretary
He is busy expressing himself. Lockdown and sudden opening without any plan is Corona virus
According to the principle that treatment is for control, the Minister of Health a For the control of corona virus
Those who did not see the work done by the government were even given a negative expression saying that they have cataract disease. this
It is the height of irresponsibility. The Prime Minister of the current government, Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli himself said-
The same is true of the members of his council of ministers, who are experts in making speeches by putting them together It is necessary to talk to the Kampfus or those who are fed up with the government's jumso working style
Their intention is to further irritate the citizens and increase their distaste for the government.
has been

Recently, through the monetary policy announced by the Nepal Rastra Bank, the real through the financial sector.
At least by providing concessions on installment payments, rescheduling etc. to minimize impacts in the area
Shame on the government for bringing forward a plan to provide some relief to industries affected by Corona
Rescue work has been done. While the corona virus is spreading all over the world, some ministers of the Oli cabinet declared Nepal free of corona virus
He was going to announce the country. Now the infection is spreading at the highest rate in the neighboring country India
From the opening of the border area in Nepal to the opening of airline flights and inviting tourists
Preparation is underway. Experts and experts in the health sector say that PCR testing is low in Nepal
Even when the doctors repeatedly scolded the government, the government stuck to its stubbornness. even more
If we are to believe some of the published news, Finance Secretary now PCR showing financial reasons
They have reached the stage of not testing, that is, the government's policy is 'no test no positive result'.
seems There is no need to say how many people have contracted corona virus in the whole country if there is no test and its control
You don't have to prepare and spend for it. Opaque until now after vilifying critics
He did not even have to show the account of the expenses incurred. The world is called a corona-free country without testing
It was also announced. This policy of the government is moving forward indirectly And somewhat hard
If an epidemic of a serious nature spreads among the citizens due to the spread of nature's virus infection
Who will take responsibility?

After opening the lockdown, the only goal of the government is to increase the economic activity of the government
Spokesperson, Minister of Information and Communication and Finance Yuvraj Khatiwada said only recently. Government itself
Any economic to mitigate the severe impact on the economy due to the covid epidemic
Could not bring revival or restoration programs. Recently published by Nepal Rastra Bank Audrik
Paying installments for mitigating impacts in the real sector through the financial sector through policy;
At least some of the industries affected by Corona by providing concessions on re-planning etc
It has been a job to save the shame of the government by moving forward the plan to provide relief, but this is only for the economy Not enough for restoration. Covid-19 does not affect only one sector of the economy, it affects the entire economy
The economic development process of Nepal has been pushed back for a long time. Recently national
The National Implementation Report of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) prepared by the Planning Commission
It has been mentioned that the progress so far has been put at risk by Covid-19. Commission also separately
Studying. I present in this article the recent efforts, achievements and generation of poverty reduction
To try to discuss some of the risks I am

The most sensitive situation is to get out of poverty and earn a sustainable livelihood
Due to the lack of Aadhaar, a large number of Nepalis are living in a vulnerable situation, which is affected by natural disasters and disasters
There is always the risk of being pushed back into poverty by other external shocks.

Nepal has achieved significant progress in the field of poverty reduction in the past three decades. Poverty
Recently, some economists have raised serious questions about different methods of measurement.
Of which one US dollar in the past and later increased to $1.25 Puchiyaan International
Poverty line - which currently stands at 1.90 US dollars, this Western colonialism
It is defined differently in the regional and national environment as a standard set based on thinking
The arguments to be made have been advanced. Institutions born after the Washington Conference World Bank, International
Standards set by institutions in the West, including the Monetary Fund, which in Europe and America's purchasing power
It is based on the purchasing power of citizens of developing economies for livelihood
Necessary These economists believe that they cannot evaluate the past. Currently implemented by Nepal
The standard of the national poverty line based on calories is also set on the recommendation of the World Bank
done

In the past, rural poverty, urban poverty and three measures of poverty in developed countries
A method of calculating the population below the poverty line on an income basis (called “headcount poverty”).
A different international perspective is that it does not represent national and regional poverty at real levels
Economists seem to agree. About two Americans Dollar income limit of sub-Saharan African countries
Spending ability of citizens or their ability to spend for living, South Asian
It may be less than the poor. South Asian poor have equal income and spending power;
It may be less than the proportion of Asia-Pacific or European poor. Likewise, in South American nations The ability of citizens to spend with the same income is less than that of American or European developed economies
maybe Therefore, a new standard for determining the basis of poverty worldwide
Economists have a different opinion. However, another set a new standard based on global goods
Re-evaluation of the national poverty line by assessing the minimum available income base until such time
There is a situation to be defined.

Speaking of the current global economic Great Recession, this epidemic is only of citizens who are in extreme poverty
No, more than that Moreover, different studies have shown that the larger population is most at risk
have shown Nepal's poverty reduction achievements have been recognized globally
yes Nepal is based on the Nepal Living Standard Measurement Survey as the basis for calculating the number of poverty
Statistical analysis is being done. However, recently the method of multidimensional poverty calculation
Nepal has also accepted it. If you look at the latest National Review Report of Sustainable Development Goals
It seems that poverty is calculated on three bases. The first calorie A based national
The poverty line, the second is the calculation of the international poverty line of US$1.90 per day and the third
Calculation of multidimensional poverty. According to the government, from 2015 to 2019, poverty in Nepal annually
It has decreased by 1.1 percent. 38 percent of the population below the national poverty line in 2000
Whereas, in 2015, this ratio had dropped to 21.6 percent and in 2019/20, the poverty rate
The population below the line has dropped to 16.7 percent.

Likewise, the international poverty line is based on a threshold of US$1.90 per day According to the year 2015
In 2019, 36 percent of Nepalis were below the poverty line, and this ratio dropped to 15 percent in 2019
is Similarly, the population below the multidimensional poverty line was 59 percent in 2006
By 2011, it had dropped to 39 percent, and in 2014 (this was prepared in 2018
(which is the basis of the national report) seems to have dropped to 28.6 percent. Thus the three main
Based on the indicators, it appears that about 6 million Nepalis are currently in extreme poverty.

 

According to the Planning Commission, in the last two decades The per capita income of the Palis increased by an average of 2.5 percent

. In 2015, the average per capita income of Nepalis was 766 USD in 2019
If it reaches 1051 dollars, it is planned to reach 1097 US dollars in 2019/20 i.e. last financial year
The commission says. Which contributed to reducing the population below the poverty line. Despite differences in study methods and methods of analysis, a large number of people living below the extreme poverty line in Nepal
The population has come out of poverty in the meantime, but what is the most sensitive situation?
Despite coming out of poverty, a large number of Nepalis do not have a basis for sustainable livelihood
Those living in vulnerable situations, who fall back into poverty due to natural disasters and other external shocks
There is always the risk of being pushed. With these three poverty measurement bases, Nepal in the short-term
Those who have been pushed into poverty by major disasters or calamities Any about population
Does not show a clear picture.

After the earthquake of 2072, nearly 7 million people were again pushed below the poverty line of the World Bank
Although there was an assessment, it was not included in any national report. Similarly, five of the same year
Due to undeclared economic embargo imposed by India for months in the main 8 districts of Terai
How many more people who are below the poverty line and around the poverty line have been pushed into poverty
Nowhere has even a small study been done on the subject, while Province 2 is second only to Karnali on the poverty scale
The most c It is a province with concentration of ribi. Similarly, the big floods, landslides and landslides in 2073-74
A general assessment of how many Nepali people were pushed into poverty due to flooding was also made
no

Extreme poverty at around 2.7 percent in sub-Saharan Africa due to COVID-19
If the situation continues to increase, it is projected that poverty will increase by 1.3 percent in South Asia. to it
A limit of US$2.2 per day will increase poverty in South Asia by 4 percent.

Speaking of the current global economic Great Recession, this pandemic has left those in extreme poverty Citizens only
No, beyond that, the larger population is most at risk, according to various studies
have shown UNCTAD, Asian Development Bank (ADB), International Monetary Fund, CPR etc
Based on various international studies, the current health crisis is global
Human and social costs have been increased, so they are around the poverty line
More so when the ability of citizens to spend not only on health care but also on earning a living is weak
Additional citizens in extreme poverty The risk of being pushed has increased. Done by UNCTAD
According to the study, keeping the standard of US$1.90 per day would result in an additional nearly one worldwide
The percentage of population below the poverty line will increase. By this standard the most sub- In South Asia, extreme poverty continues to rise at around 2.7 percent in sub-Saharan Africa
Poverty is projected to increase by 1.3 percent. Capping it at US$3.2 per day
Poverty will increase by 4 percent in South Asia.

Not only has COVID-19 affected the first poverty reduction goal of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),
The Planning Commission is of the view that there is an increased risk of serious setbacks to other major goals as well. now
The conclusion of the commission is that the standards of the development goals should be set from the new framework. Our own purchase
Q Calculated based on the polls and the average per capita income growth rate of 2.5 percent over the past three decades
Because of this three-month long lockdown, about 40 people lost their jobs and lost their income
lakh and 8.4 lakh (1.7 and a half lakh households) of the most vulnerable are immediately in extreme poverty
A preliminary study showed that in this case 1.5 to 2.5 percent were pushed below the poverty line
is As things stand, it has pushed Nepal's poverty reduction efforts back half a decade.

The first poverty reduction goal of the Sustainable Development Goals (ADGs) has been affected by COVID-19 Not three, others
The Planning Commission is of the view that the risk of serious setbacks to the major goals has increased. Now new
The commission concluded that the standards of the development goals should be determined from the framework. This is only for Nepal
It is the biggest challenge for global development practice. Decisions made unilaterally
Such challenges are not addressed, a call for cooperation should be made globally in a new framework.
Formal development support does not flow from the previous structures and foundations anymore. With great resources
Countries mobilized The cost of the economic revival (stimulus) packages is huge
The impact also falls on the traditional priorities of development.

For the past three years, the rapid growth has been achieved by achieving a high economic growth rate of more than 6 percent
In the speed that was achieved, Covid-19 has acted as a speed breaker. The most basic question
Can the rapid and high economic growth rate achieved by the world since the 90s be sustained again?
It means that it cannot. The National Planning Commission has set a target to be achieved during the fifteenth periodic plan period
two It has admitted that Covid-19 has created obstacles in the target of high-digit economic growth
Let's say that in the last three years, the economic growth rate of more than 6 percent has been accelerated
The speed of growth that was achieved, Covid-19 has acted as a speed breaker. Well then
Is the growth rate achieved in recent years real or not? What are the reasons for high growth? The question is also raised, because of the ratio of investments flowing from both the government and the private sector
It seems a bit unnatural to achieve this level of growth continuously. Now after this global shock
The Nepalese economy will rise again and will be limited to the average growth rate of 4 and a half percent for the past two decades
Whether the state will be able to increase investment flows and go back to higher growth is hard to say right now.

(News Transactions, July 14, 2077) The risk of a major disaster
Dud

Impact of Covid-16 on extreme poverty in least developed countries

     
   

 
    

30
Pre-Covid-16 Estimates Post-Covid-16 Estimates

| Population in extreme poverty (in ten lakhs) % Poverty percentage as a proportion of population _
ie: swears

   

At the moment, the whole world's interest and concern is due to the corona virus epidemic, what is happening in the world economy?
What a serious impact it will have and any change in the economic-social structure of the entire world
Whether or not there is a condition that can be brought. The difference now- Different theoretical ideologies
(school of thoughts) economists and development economists now in the world economic structure
Some new concepts are being publicized to advance towards the path of restructuring
Keynesian-style economists advocate globalization and open-market economics
They put forward the argument that change cannot be made at once.

The way capital has influenced the current world economy, along with the transfer of human wealth
has increased Especially the world human with internet technology Life has been made very close (Vishwa Village
perception) and artificial intelligence with the tremendous development in information and communication technology
(AI) including some applications that can be used to replace human labor in industrial production
In the current situation, any country is completely independent or only a little from the old structure
There is also an ideology that countries cannot be interdependent. As these debates continue
One thing that is clear is the way in which capital is over-prioritized in the global economy It was done As the capitalist economy became stronger, the economic and social differences in the society increased
There has been a deep gap of inequality between people, communities and countries. June
Small initiatives are not enough.

In recent times, the per capita income of ordinary citizens has greatly expanded in the global economy
Citizens who have been growing and are below the poverty line are gradually coming out of it and standing in the middle class
A great argument has been made. Leaving aside the distance, the neighboring country India has started to be counted among the world's largest economies
the queue That time has passed. Now India is among the top five countries in the world.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that India will become a 5 trillion US dollar economy
has done. Adoption to prevent existing corona virus infection and its spread
During the lockdown, millions of Indian workers were employed in urban and industrial sectors
After the loss and the food and living crisis, they are returning to their homes after walking hundreds of kilometers. Answer
15 workers who were returning to the state were hit by a train It's already dead. It's painful
Indian television channels are broadcasting the situation every day. It is the largest in the world
That's how deep the economic inequality is in India's emerging economy, which is said to be a middle-class market
It has been confirmed that it is.

This situation is not only in India but also in many countries of the world with similar severe economic inequality
The pathetic images generated are coming forward Such an international crisis or
Only Nepal can remain safe from the flood of economic recession caused by health The situation was not and will not be
too Due to its own unique character of the Nepali economy, it has somehow recovered from previous economic downturns
Although it has been surviving, the current situation is very different and complex in nature. of our economy
Despite its subsistence character, it has a global socket due to the living/lifestyle of its citizens
Nothing happens without an impact.

They sent their labor abroad the way we did after the 1990s
By taking any kind of policy to run the economy of our country through income, i.e. remittances
income Well, it had some kind of negative effect. of the social effects of remittances
There was a lot of discussion and now we will have to bear the effects of the financial crisis. The most positive impact of remittances on the Nepalese economy is that of Nepal in the last two decades

Although 22 percent of the population rises above the extreme poverty line, they are all remittance-receiving families
They were not. The flow of money in the economy due to remittances and the distribution of opportunities among others
An opportunity was created for the income earners of the group to get out of poverty. straight away
Everyone was made a shareholder of the profit received from the remittance. Households earning remittances
Keep a little savings with yourself A neo-rich class was also created in the society. this
The neo-rich used to import ready-made goods from abroad and receive remittances at a huge profit
To sell to commercial consumers services including health education open to families and their spending
used to

As this cycle of economy expands, the population below the extreme poverty line in Nepal is decreasing
. This trend will continue to increase in the coming decades to at least five percent by 2030
A government that keeps the population below the extreme poverty line The goal was, but such a global epidemic
Not only that, but internally Nepal is experiencing natural disasters and other types of disasters every year
They have been creating obstacles even in the goal of poverty reduction. Earthquake of 2072 and the same
Indian economic embargo of the year, floods and landslides of 2073/74, inundation again 3 percent of Nepali peak
There is an estimate of being pushed into poverty.

 

Recently, UNCTAD published a policy paper on least developed countries like Nepal
(LDCs) on the poverty line due to the current global health epidemic The existing population is at least 3
Bindu has warned that it will increase. 34 crore in 2010 in these countries according to UNCTAD
Despite the progress achieved by some countries including Nepal, people remain below the poverty line
In 2018, the number of citizens below the poverty line increased to 349 million
African LDCs have a major role to play. Other global organizations also present world health
In some poor communities around the world due to the global financial crisis caused by epidemics and similar causes
Most serious And it has been mentioned that there will be damage. The poorer classes from such calamities and from recent poverty
As the middle class that has left will be more affected, the economic disparity will grow deeper
Economists say The economic growth rate, which is the official calculation of the economy, is below the poverty ratio
Even if it is not shown, the multi-dimensional impact of such a crisis cannot be ignored. That's why
In the world, the gross domestic product (GDP) alone is the economic condition of the entire population
Since it is not represented, there is a debate that should be looked at from other alternative indicators. Recently the United Nations
Nepal in the disaster risk assessment published by the Federal Development Program (UNDP).
In the “Lower Middle Class” with higher risks has kept

Let's look at some risk indicators of Nepal mentioned in the statistical position paper of UNDP. In Nepal
Currently, the multi-dimensional poor is 34 percent. At risk of being pushed back into multi-dimensional poverty
Class is 22.3 percent. The international poverty line is $1.90 per day
The proportion of Nepalis is 15 percent while the population below the national poverty line is 22.2 percent
. In addition, 35.4 percent of the labor force earns only $3.20 per day. this
Looking at the major indices together Almost 55 percent of the population now belongs to Corona virus
It is at risk of being seriously affected by the economic recession caused by the cause.

What has been said time and again is that the middle class population has increased in Nepal in the last three decades
Reached 17 percent, the wealthy population increased to 2 percent, but with little income
The proportion of Nepalis who live before hardship is very large. Now in government agencies
About 600,000 people, including civil servants, police, army and teachers, have got jobs, 25 of them
copy Only 100% are in the higher income category. including public institutions and
The number receiving regular salary allowances in private establishments is only around 20 lakhs. unorganized
It is said that nearly 1.5 million Nepalis are employed in the sector. In Micro, Household, Small and Medium Enterprises
About 3.5 million Nepalis are involved. Apart from this, the Nepalese who own a small proportion of land
The ratio is also 50 to 60 lakhs.

It is the most sensitive of Nepal and any type of disaster be it disease or
It is the population that is most and first affected by calamities such as earthquakes, floods, and fires.
Jai So the government should not only talk about the big figures of the economy but also the vulnerable groups
It is necessary to come up with a targeted and specific plan to address this. Farmers who look on and cry when the lamb rots in the field, businessmen who collect milk in the village dairy industry or
Kaligarh, who carves idols in the handicraft industry, the finance minister said, “How much in the rate of revenue to save the economy
Changed" or about how he brought a plan to bring railways in the budget to increase the economic growth rate
They don't mean, they need the government for the rice they cook in their kitchens during the current crisis
They hope that what kind of relief they are guaranteeing. Right now, 6 lakh Nepalis from abroad
Ready to go back He is sitting. For them, the National Bank has issued foreign employment savings certificates worth billions
It does not mean that there is no loss, but rather the operation of economic activities at interest-free or minimum interest rates
It makes sense what the National Bank will do.

So if the economic downturn caused by the current health epidemic and the accompanying high
Protecting lower and lower-middle class citizens from being pushed back into poverty by price hikes
If yes, it will directly affect the common people rather than the big economic ideals policy of
A special package should be brought to address it.

(News Transactions, May 30, 2077) 84 thousand Nepalis are falling into poverty

For the past 77 days, the government of Nepal has taken measures to prevent the current health crisis that has emerged globally
Here is a sequence of the various impacts on the Nepalese economy due to the adopted house arrest
The results are starting to show. The most recent study shows that those involved in the informal sector in Nepal and
17 lakh 81 thousand 698 families below the poverty line, i.e. about 84 lakh Nepalese housebound
Because of the most extreme crisis has shown. Nepal through the country's food safety monitoring system
in all districts This description prepared using your network is also about one
A month ago. If we compare it with the current situation, it is more than 9 million
It seems that more Nepalis have fallen into extreme crisis.

According to the government, the population below the poverty line is only around 5.5 million
In this situation, an additional 3.4 million people will be pushed below the poverty line by almost 5 percentage points
The poverty line is rising. This is more than the international trends shown by the empirical evidence so far
be more Asian Development Bank medium term a In the case of your regular income, professional business
The loss was estimated to increase poverty in the Asia-Pacific region by an additional 4 to 7 percent.
This is based on the baseline of the group earning less than US$ 3.2 per day
It is calculated on the basis of per capita income and their spending capacity. United Nations
Another study conducted for the University also found that globally by 0.9 percent to 2 percent
Poverty will increase and only 4 percent of it is in South Asia.

Food safety SHA network created by the government of Nepal, workers working in the informal sector, seniors
Relief packages given by the government for citizens, disabled persons and helpless and poor groups
The number of “highly affected” families is calculated based on this. According to this calculation, the highest number is 5 lakh in Province 2
68 thousand 614 families, followed by 69 thousand 500 families in Wagmati, 3 lakh 27 in Province 1
thousand 736 families, 1 lakh 83 thousand 969 families in province 5, 1 lakh 27 thousand 338 in Far West
Families, 111,475 families in Gandaki, 93 Hajj in Karnali The Ar 96 family and the "overwhelmed"
The study showed that 4 to 30 kg of rice per family at the beginning of house arrest for these "highly affected" families, 1-2
By giving kilos of pulses, etc., the government has submitted a bill costing 2.5 billion. While through the local level
The distributed food aid will be available only for 7 days, sometimes for 15 days
was of condition. In order to prevent the spread of the corona virus, the movement, profession, business, business of the common people,
It has been more than three months since the house arrest was adopted, affecting the employment as well.

As the period of house arrest lengthens, only the poor are at the bottom No, even the middle class is extremely economical
is in crisis. From which the government has neither a clear vision nor plan and program for rescue
the same As soon as the government saw the draft of the budget presented in the parliament recently, the corona virus struck the government
It has become clear that there is no plan for rescue from the financial crisis. Now this is the reason for Nepal
What can be expected to bring about the impact of the program on poverty? Government bodies
They are doing their homework to show that the poverty ratio has decreased.

International Labor Organization According to the latest employment status of (ILO) in the informal sector of Nepal
Out of 5.7 million Nepalis who are employed, the employment of 37 million Nepalis is in crisis. this
The people around the poverty line are the people whose income is only around 350 rupees per day
is Another study by the World Bank says - a 3.6 percent decline in per capita income globally
Pushing millions more into extreme poverty. Some critics consider the per capita income of the country as a whole
This is because the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is divided by the total population take
They say that the real level of income of the common people is not assessed.

 

A separate national level study is required for this. 2014 in case of Nepal
After the release of the National Human Development Report, the next report will be released in the last year (2019).
Why did it stop? Based on the old study, the per capita income of Kathmandu is 2700
Keeping aside Humla's average income of USD 600 when above USD
While the average per capita income of Nepalese is 1085 dollars, not all classes are represented yes

The current global crisis has now highlighted the need for new standards and definitions of poverty. Until recently
Prevailing income-based, subsistence-based and lifestyle-based
Norms based on calories needed to meet human needs
It has become clear that they are. Additional measures adopted by governments to overcome crisis situations Travel, business shutdown (shutdown) plans have created more crisis globally and this
So far, IA's extreme poverty--not only those in poverty; After the 1990s
Even the "middle class", which has emerged as a class that provides energy to the global economy, is facing serious shortages
Being caught in a trap now requires a new definition.

Already, some economists use the term "middle income trap" for countries including China and India
Now this word has become the common income of all countries and means a middle-class life Wow everyone
The current world crisis has created a situation to be used for classes. In the “Middle Income Trap”.
The trapped citizens were not eligible to get the five kilo relief distributed by the government, nor the Prime Minister
Named in the 100-day employment program of the "Pradhan Mantri Employment Program" which defines the unemployed
They can participate in the drainage management plan implemented by the municipality.

Different economists for different world economic institutions that are currently being published
Almost all researches prepared There is almost a single squeeze—the biggest in the last century
Economic depression is (in time calculation, some economists say after 1930 and others
After World War II), it increased the per capita income of common people worldwide and their spending power
has shrunk. Governments have to spend more on health than on other welfare sectors
Spending will be reduced, especially on social security umbrella programs. Global income
Inequality will deepen. And millions of people in total until now by pushing them into extreme poverty
Global poverty reduction targets set will be affected.

 

In the case of Nepal, the calculation of additional 30 million Nepalis who are pushed into poverty is the most if we look at it regionally
Among the first-hit categories are households that depend on remittance income -- households, which account for about 56 percent.
have reached and based on their income, they are doing financial business in micro, small, domestic and
Entrepreneurs and businessmen associated with medium industry and trade and their dependents include 2.5 million employees and workers.
Studies say - Nepali meaning Half of the economy is covered by informal economic activities.
Of which there is no formal accounting. The second most vulnerable sector is tourism. Needless to say,
Nepal's tourism income is based on seasonal income. A single Himalayan during the mountain climbing season
When a porter earns up to 5-7 lakhs, he has to spend the rest of the year on that. Now in Nepal
It is estimated that 573,000 people are involved in the tourism sector. A large part of this is tourism. Along with trekking and mountaineering aids, the lower middle income class is occupied while the tourist sector
The income of small hotels, restaurants, lodges has been completely disrupted by the current travel ban. In tourism
When talking about impact, its front and back relationship cannot be separated.

Agriculture Minister Ghanshyam Bhusal, while giving an answer in Parliament recently, said the number of people who returned to their villages due to house arrest
When they returned to the village to grow vegetables, the fruit rotted due to excess production and consumption
Expressed. The first factual error in this is that s Consumption due to higher foreign production
If it is not rotten, it is imported from India because of the "small government, tole government".
It is said that the local product is not given to the market. The second and most important thing is that in recent times
Commercial vegetables and fruits are being cultivated in more than 40 districts of the country. And, vegetables
Most of the small farmers have been involved in farming for a long time, who own a small proportion of land or
They are cultivating vegetables by renting the fields of others. Such produce was directly consumed in the tourism sector.
If there are no guests in the hotel, the farmer's U Due to lack of pause consumption, it has affected their income.
Therefore, the impact of tourism alone should not be underestimated. Dependent on tourism activities
This has a multi-faceted effect when the impact on low-middle level income and employment is also counted
It seems to have passed.

It is unfortunate that the government has been using the slogan of 'Prosperity and Happy Nepali' in recent times
The original goal of mitigation is being forgotten, which was the original goal after the Ninth Plan.
Poverty targeting programs have also recently started In the year of 2018, they are either stopped or given low priority
have been passed] Improvement in the standard of living of the common people by showing a reduction in poverty through statistical manipulation
no Therefore, the impact of the current world crisis on the country's poverty reduction is realistic
A reliable study is essential.

(Nagarik Daily, 28 Jeshtha 2077) Covid is increasing the poverty and food crisis

At a time when the global health crisis caused by the corona virus (Covid-19) is deepening
Recently, some policy decisions have been taken to prevent its spread in Nepal. Long distance from Monday
Vehicle operation is prohibited. Apart from the flow of 19 types of essential services
Other government services have been closed] These decisions came only very late. Neighboring country India
Even the corona virus infection is spreading. By the time this article was prepared, there were 370 people infected
There are 6 people He has passed away. The most sensitive thing is the border with Nepal
One person has died due to covid-19 in the state of Bihar. Open border between Nepal and India
Because of the high demand for water rations in the border areas, from Joho to family relationships
Its infection risk is greatly increased. More worrying are Sunsari-Morang, Bara-Parsa,
The number of workers coming from India in the industrial areas including Nepalganj is very large
There is no system of health check-up.

India has 31 deaths as the virus continues to spread Decision to stop all types of railway services till
If it has been done, it has also controlled the operation of public transport. Until yesterday it was global
Even our government machinery, which is trying to determine whether the epidemic will affect Nepal or not, has also spread to India
It is increasing and there is a "lockdown" in the name of public curfew to prevent infection
They are barely shaken by the effort.

Economist Richard Baldwin, founding editor-in-chief of VoxEU, said the Noble Corona Virus (SARS-
COV-2) to the movie title "World War Two" (Jam B) connected with context, said
In the movie, the jobs have expanded exponentially from one to two, from two to four, and uncontrollably
is shown. As explained in the movie, Jagitra returns after being revived by this special power
never dies and spreads uncontrollably across the globe in search of new prey. By the economist Baldwin
The spread of Covid-19 has been explained in the same way] This is exactly how the virus spreads
seems As of Monday, 307,000 people have been infected in 168 countries around the world this.
The virus went from zero to one million in the first 100 days of its appearance, then one in the second 12 days
From 1 lakh to 2 lakh, in just 3 days from 2 lakh to 3 lakh i.e. its expansion rate It looked very scary. Compared to other types of epidemics that have appeared before
It has emerged as a new crisis for the world as the rate of expansion has been very rapid.

As of Monday afternoon, a total of 13,000 people have died from the virus worldwide, though
Nearly 93,000 infected people have recovered, with its death rate (4.25 percent) earlier
Some health experts claim that it is relatively less than other epidemics that have occurred. But that's it
It is not possible to live with confidence because the way it spreads is like this SARS, MERS,
The rate is much higher and faster than Ebola. 1918 “Spanish Influenza”, 1957 “Asian
Flu”, 1968 “Hong Kong Flu”, 2009 N.H. (bird flu), 2002 SARS, 2012
Co MERS and Ebola of 2013-14 had outbreaks in certain or limited countries. Some of them are epidemic
Although the death rate was high, the spread was not as high and rapid as "Covid-19".

On the government's claim and the model done so far by Shaheed Shukraraj Tropical Hospital in Teku
According to the test, only one person in Nepal has this virus He also recovered from the infection
It is said that he has returned. India has an open border of about 1800 km and the last
In case the government wakes up, there is no speedy health screening method at Tribhuvan airport
In a country like ours, we can claim that people infected with Covid-19 are not coming or staying
There is no condition. This is what the health workers are beginning to say] The bottom line is that the World Health Organization
(WHO) worries that its infection has gone beyond the control limits of any country It has been said. China, the country of origin of this virus, has recently seen a low rate of infection within its own country
While releasing the details of what happened, the world's largest economy in other European countries including the United States
It is spreading very alarmingly.

This is the only effective way (so far) to avoid a global health crisis - completely by yourself
Be careful. If the corona virus infection spreads in Nepal somehow or in many people at once
Hagro private that his ability to manage the treatment in case of its infection is very weak
Q Not only field hospitals, but also government doctors have accepted] in such a situation
Assuming that the government says, we ourselves will take some minimal precautions for its expansion
We can stop it from spreading, there is nothing big about it. Wash your hands with soap and water, around yourself
Keeping the environment clean, not going to crowded places, normal weather if symptoms like cold and fever appear. With the doctors from the designated phone number if it is a cold or symptoms of covid-19
Cover your mouth with a tissue paper or cover your elbow when you cough, sneeze, consult. These are the basics.
These simple precautions can prevent its spread.

No matter how much the government saves, there is no significant impact on the Nepali economy due to this global health crisis
Even if it is not possible, economists from all over the world say that due to the impact of this multifaceted level, the world is now
They have come to the conclusion that the economy is about to enter the Great Depression phase] Varkh Ray “Center for Economic Policy
Research (CPR) published in the book "Economics in the time of Covid-19".
22 of the world's economies have predicted the impact this global health crisis could have on the world's economy
He explained the upheaval.

The top 10 countries with the highest spread of this virus are America, China, Japan, Germany,
Britain, France, Italy, India and Iran account for half of the world economy. This virus
These highly expanded countries, including G7 plus China, dominate the world in terms of economy and
60 percent including demand, 65 percent of global manufacturing and 45 percent of global manufacturing exports
occupy China, Korea, Japan, Germany and the US in the global financial supply chain (valuchain).
They occupy more than half of the share. Therefore, we are a small umbrella from the big cyclone coming to the world economy
It is just a joke that we can get away with it. We can neither escape nor isolate ourselves from the grip of the global economy
We have the ability to stay.

Global economic growth from 0.1 to at most 1 percent a month ago due to Covid-19 slow down
While there is a decline forecast, the economists associated with CEPR currently estimate the world economy to be 1.5
[Some say there will be a decline] This is the phase of the biggest recession ever. of the present
To compare the global health crisis with previous economic financial downturns and health epidemics
Economists believe that this is because countries have adopted measures to reduce the rate of expansion
Various schemes (which range from travel bans to public transactions or services that flow at the civic level
(includes up to the imposed ban) This causes world demand And creating a crisis in the supply chain itself,
The world travel ban will lead to an L-shaped decline in the services sector and global job creation
It will have a multifaceted effect when the activities including construction which drives the job market are affected.
At the same time, it creates a crisis in the capital flow in the global financial market has come A stress test should be done to see how far banks can handle their liquidity situation
condition is This created a devaluation (fall in the value of money) in the exchange of world currencies
is The price of petroleum products is moving towards the lowest level in history. Crisis in stock markets around the world
has come

The control over the movement of citizens creates the biggest crisis in their income
will be In Nepal's major labor destinations, 60 percent of workers have already been cut.
This situation will increase in the coming days There is a risk of reaching 100%. Looking for Seasonal Jobs in India
The longing for the return home of the Nepalese who have left has been seen at Gaddachouki Naka Naka in the Far West. Even at the end
That's how it is. Nepalis who have been fired from their jobs in countries including Qatar are now stranded. This order
Increasing: As the remittances they send to pay their family's expenses and expenses in Nepal
It will be closed, apart from this, due to its cyclical effect, the banking sector of Nepal will gradually face crisis
is at risk. This is as true as the sun rising in the east every day It is an eternal truth.
This cannot be avoided only by the defense of the finance minister, the spokesperson of the government.

Risk of poverty and starvation

In order to control the epidemic of this virus in Nepal, the government has imposed an immediate ban of a very mild nature
Even in the neighboring country India, the manner in which it is expanding, looking at its nature
Now here too, it is not possible to live by making small decisions or without making solid decisions. So sooner or later
A decision has to be taken with stricter measures than the current one which is now called "lockdown" across the world.
That said is taken Populations below the poverty line are at the greatest risk of such crises
Global studies have shown. Because of disasters with decisions like “lockdowns” or service disruptions
They may lose their jobs because of the efforts to control them. supplied
A disruption or shortage leads to an increase in prices of food and other commodities. So that those who are below the poverty line
People will also be unable to buy the food items needed for their bodies] stocked up with them
Having no savings, one must face starvation The danger increases. This is not only for Nepal but all over the world
In the plans with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) put forward to reduce poverty for the community
It is a big shock. Apart from these, the middle class families around the poverty line are also at risk of facing another big crisis.
Even if the service is interrupted for a minimum period of about one month, the impact it can have is very deep
will be In the past, the world economic growth rate of the crisis that is now seen by economists is "V Sep", that is, one
Even if the year goes down, the next year will rise again at a faster rate, but from the new study, "You know" that is
It is said to remain stable for some time after falling below, which is a potential additional risk to the global economy.
Because of this, it can be brought into the country including Australia, Canada to avoid financial crisis
The country is announcing an economic recovery program. In which financial to low income groups
From assistance to tax breaks, there are even rescue packages for businesses.

In Nepal, the government is still in the "studying" stage. Even though the government's study is over, there is something to do this year
The situation is very less because the government does not have the necessary money. 1 billion in revenue already
It is estimated that the revenue collection will decrease by Rs.
of the global crisis Even half of the 3000,000 crores expected for military aid has come, thankfully.
2 billion rupees in Rashtra Bank will be enough to feed most of the employees up to salary and other packages
If you want to bring it, you have to ask again with the donor.

(Civil Daily 11 Chait 2076) A crisis in national income

As the global epidemic of the coronavirus (Covid-19) continues to spread globally, recently foreign
The Department of Employment has stopped work permits for all countries. This decision has already taken labor approval
40,000 and about 20,000 Nepali migrant workers who have returned home on vacation will be directly affected
. Apart from this, passports have been submitted to the Manwar companies and waiting for the "visa to come".
It is estimated that there are about 50,000. Nepal's major labor destinations are Qatar and Saudi Arabia Whoa
In the initial phase, the country temporarily banned the entry of migrant workers including Nepalis
are wearing According to a recent study on Nepalese labor migration, 4 lakh 6 in Qatar
917 thousand and 34 thousand 451 Nepali workers are employed in Saudi Arabia. covid-
How long will the global epidemic of 19 spread and how will its effects spread?
It is not possible to argue that this is the case now. It has a deep nature in the global economy itself
Economists have already said that it will cause a shock. Now the world's leading economy, with growing expansion in the U.S. for health precautions there
A new assessment continues that the measures that have been adopted will relax the economic activity
have been Some government-backed Nepalese economists directly linked Nepal with the global economy
If there is no, that is, the economic shock that can be caused by Covid-19 here because it is a single economy
They have started to express that the effect is very low. Whatever those economists have argued, abroad
This 100,000 people who cannot go immediately activities to increase agricultural and economic productivity
It has a positive effect on Nepal's economy as it can be operated. this
Nothing but speculation. Because, Nepali youth workforce, who are ready to go for foreign employment
They have also submitted their passports to the Manpower Agency, so they can return and engage in agriculture
Chances are very low.

It is not clear how many people are involved in agriculture now. Nepal Living Standard Measurement All (Third),
Differences between Census, Sample Agricultural Survey and Nepal Labor Force Survey Average by keeping the data together It seems that about 60 percent of Nepalis are involved in agriculture. It has been declining over the past decade
is in order. The new census to be completed next year will show the real ratio. What is reality?
The exodus from the sector due to rising costs of agriculture, declining returns and poor competitiveness
The ratio is increasing every year. To return that manpower back to agriculture
The government does not have an attractive package or program. Those in power who misused the subsidies given to agriculture
The party workers received the grant The news is coming. So foreigners
He said that the economic growth can be boosted by using the Nepali youth who have not been employed in agriculture
Just imagine.

Agricultural statistics are not reliable. Due to adverse weather conditions in the current financial year, rice production 1
Even if it decreases by a percentage (only?), it will not affect the economic growth rate as other sectors will compensate for it
Those economists claim, but the preliminary study of the Central Statistics Department does not say so. First
According to the 6-month study, the growth rate of agriculture is 3 percent Da is shown to remain low. The main agricultural pocket of the country
Increased land fragmentation in the regions, resulting in increased internal migration of people living in the lowlands
Paddy due to the depleting paddy fields and barren land due to the migration of young manpower
Preliminary estimates show that the arable land has decreased by about two and a half percent this year. Paddy
The proportion of planted land has been continuously decreasing for the past three years.

The condition of not being able to sustain even a year with their production, consumption of income due to rising prices
Unaffordability and other expenses A- In search of work due to social reasons
The number of Nepalis who leave Thatathalo is increasing day by day. There are basically three such migrations
There is a kind of traditional migration, which is from one village to another village or from village to city
It happens from the mountains to the plains. The mountains and villages are now almost empty. of income
Those who come to the city and Terai in search of opportunities are forced to go abroad in search of work when they do not find opportunities there
It is increasing. In the past, India (Mughlan) was flooded in search of work like this, but after gaining democracy
In passport c India's liberal regime and the opportunities available in the world labor market in East Asia apart from India
And the trend of going to the Gulf countries for employment has increased So far, Nepalis are working in 156 countries
The data of the Foreign Employment Department shows that people are looking for opportunities. 45 million Nepalis in foreign lands

Nepalis who have gone abroad because of not getting employment opportunities in their country and for earning more income
There is no clear description of the number. According to the Department of Foreign Employment, the year 2000
From April to July 2019, 59 lakh 55 thousand labor permits have been issued. In this
The number of people who return to their country and take work permit again is also added, so they are actually foreigners
It is not clear how many Nepalis are working in the land.

Passport Department from December 2010 to July 15, 2019 59 lakh 73 thousand 3 11
Passports have been issued. The number of passports issued and work permits taken seems to be the same
Also, the number of people who do not go abroad with a passport, make passports only for travel or other purposes, etc
When cut, it is confirmed that about 4.5 million Nepalis are working in foreign lands.

According to the last fiscal year report of the Passport Department, the number of Nepalese passport holders in 66 countries
It is around 23 lakh 50 thousand.

In the last fiscal year 2075/76, apart from foreign employment, travel, business, study and others
11 la for the purpose only B. 31 thousand Nepalis went abroad. Calculate based on this
Even counting the number of Nepalis working in India, at least 45 lakh Nepalis are working abroad
The assessment has been made. Let's estimate once, only 50 percent of it is Nepali with Covid-19
If they return to Nepal due to the global health crisis, will our economy manage them easily?
can do

Nepali in India: Illusion and Reality

The most confusing thing is that there is no clear information about how many Nepalis are in the neighboring country of India. difference-
Assumptions made for different purposes They have shown different details. by some
It is said that there are 5 million Nepalis in India, but the United Nations Federal Migration Organization
(IOM) recently published the first “Nepal Migration National Profile-2019” in India.
It shows that on an average there are only around 7 to 1 million Nepalis.

IOM compared the census of Nepal and India since 1981
He says that in the past, he was looking for short-term employment in India after not finding employment opportunities in third countries Even if it goes to Nepali, this order is gradually decreasing after the 1990s. 1981 for example
93 percent of the absentee population in Nepal went to India during the census of
In 2001, this ratio decreased to 77 percent and in 2011, it further decreased to 37.5 percent.
Jashwyo Numerically, in 2011, Nepal's absentee population was 7 lakh out of 19 lakh
Was in India. Nepal and India conducted by IOM from 1995/54 to 2001
A comparative study of the population of Nepalis from the census shows that about 6 la khako
Only Nepalis were seen around.

Based on the average of 38 percent of Nepal's last census, now in India 1 million
It seems that only Nepalis are employed in Harahari. From where the annual average is around one and a half billion rupees
Remittance is received. Even in India, the infection of Covid-19 is fast. It in labor immigration
Not only that, it will have a serious impact on the overall economy of Nepal, which has an open border and inter-border economy
The threat has increased.

According to the latest study, 5.5 million Nepalis are added to the labor market every year It shows that
Out of them, only about one to one and a half lakh people have employment opportunities in the private sector and the informal economy
get Countries that can provide employment opportunities for newly added labor force from abroad
How much is the capacity to invest in the proportion that needs to be invested for the management of the returning manpower
It seems that little attention has been paid to the matter now.

The biggest risk is that Nepalis in international labor destinations due to this global health epidemic
Not because of the gradual loss of jobs and its effects Received by Epal formally and informally
There has been a situation where the remittance flow is decreasing or stopping. Remittances led to labor migration
Not only does it drive household spending, but its cyclical effect on the economy has increased consumption.
Consumption has increased imports. It includes wholesale and retail trade, hotel and restaurant activities and education
Increasing expenditure on health sector has revitalized the service sector as a whole.

In the last two decades, about 90 have been brought in through formal and informal (hundi and hand carry).
95 Billions of rupees have been used in Nepal's banking system. Formal in the current financial year
About 9 trillion rupees through medium and 30 percent of it through informal means about 11 trillion It was expected that a remittance flow of Rs. However, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic
The initial estimate is that remittances will decrease by at least 25 percent. It foreign regulation of Nepal
There will be a serious blow to the reserves, as another source of foreign exchange earnings is the tourism sector, at least 40%
It is estimated that the loss will be billions of rupees.

Therefore, we should not underestimate the impact of the global health epidemic caused by Covid-19
Do not say that Pashupatinath will save you. "Health-related problems are still coming up" in Nepal, unquote.
too It has become clear that even Pashupatinath himself will find it difficult to save himself from the global economic shock. About half a dozen Nepali in the manga of ChM

Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli addressing the nation on the occasion of New Year 2077 in the last two years
Over the years, the government has been making significant progress with its policies on the path to higher economic growth
He said that the outbreak of Covid-19 has created obstacles in the situation where he was concentrating. Government
Supporters blame the government for the economic growth rate of only 3 percent before the Oli government came into being
He has argued that because of the initiative, it has reached 7 and a half percent before Corona.

Meant by the Central Statistics Department (CSD). If you look at the National Accounts data, the details of the plan will be prepared
Before the earthquake and the blockade, the country's economic growth rate was 6.7 percent
The reason is that it increased to 0.2 percent in the financial year 2072/73 and then the specific character of the Nepalese economy
(which is called resilience), post-earthquake reconstruction, even weather
In the year 073/74, the growth rate was maintained at around 8 percent when it was favorable. After that
The economic growth rate dropped to 6.7 percent in the last financial year from 7.1 percent Ketaviko with Yama
It is a preliminary estimate. So far, the government has not released the official data, but the central data
The national statistics of the first 6 months of the current financial year 2076/77 prepared by the department
Based on the economic survey of the first half-year period, the growth rate this year is around 6 percent
It has been shown to persist. Probably within the next two weeks, the Central Statistics Department will launch the economic
The preliminary financial statement for the year will be published. The government under the Ministry of Finance and the nation
Conducting different studies under the bank is Prime Minister Oli himself about the damage after Corona
He said that the government has already mobilized various agencies related to it for the estimation.
The overall assessment process will follow as the pace of the epidemic can be predicted in the coming weeks
Based on his statement, only the third week of the current financial year will be concluded
National accounting data will be published.

Based on empirical evidence, Corona virus after March of the current financial year
Due to the epidemic, the houses are being moved to Nepal This year, despite the fact that the economy has increased even more
The growth rate may remain between 2.5 to 4 percent of normal conditions, because of the 8 months of the financial year
The economy was in normal condition. The most important thing is our traditional basis and present in calculating the economic growth rate of Nepal
On the basis of industrial classification, the current finance minister has repeatedly underestimated the economy
Dr. Yuvraj Khatiwada has been telling. Taking financial year 058/59 as base year (baseline).
The current national accounting data of Nepal has been kept. It all of the existing economy
New calculation taking base year 068/69 from last financial year as activities are not covered
Preparations were made. If the new basis If the year is fixed, the economy of Nepal
It is estimated that the size can increase by at least 25 to 30 percent. The first economic in it
Preparations were also made to adjust the results of the survey. If the current global economic
A statement showing that the economy was expanding in size or had a high economic growth rate during the Great Depression
If it is made public, it will be considered illegal, related to the economic sector of the national-international sector
Experts will laugh at people because it is 8.5 as the government's economic growth rate percentage or
Even in case of decrease, it is more likely to show that it is between 5 to 6 percent.

The unique character of the Nepali economy and the way of life of us Nepalis and the flow of the economy
If we look at the reasons including capacity as a basis, in the current financial year, the global economy
As the organizations say, there is no decline in Nepal's economic growth rate at high levels or high points
can Prime Minister Oli also put it in inverted commas and said, "from 2 of the total domestic product from this epidemic
About 4 percent of our economy According to the analysis of scholars from different fields that will cause damage
He said that the government has paid enough attention. Asian Development Bank (ADB) due to Covid-19
Nepal's economic growth rate is between 4.5 and 5.5 percent, while the World Bank estimates it to be 1.5 percent
It said that it will be between 2.8 percent. Prime Minister Oli probably pointed to these projections
should have done ADB's somewhat more optimistic projections are those of the World Bank's global presence
A bit more because it is based on projection evidence It is considered close.

The point to be considered here is the calculation of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in Nepal for the financial year
basis, which covers a year from July (mid-July) to June (mid-July).
It is considered as base. Nepal adopted this calculation method of the financial year based on Kautaliya economics
found. Based on this, the economy of the country for the first eight months of the current financial year
And the economic activity was going on as usual. Jumso of government inaction or inability to act
Thinking-style some reason economic activity It was only in a state of contraction. The first eight Currently, the government cannot spend even 25 percent of the total allocated budget for capital for months
Due to the month-long lockdown, the economy quadrupled, at a high economic growth rate
Pushing is just an excuse to hide your weakness.

In the current financial year, even if the situation is normal, the economic growth rate will be above 6 percent
Some independent economists of Nepal and international bodies have been saying that they cannot know
were When the government evaluates the functioning of the government, the last time of the financial year on or last
There has been a trend of spending on development work only on a quarterly basis. Based on this
And based on the principle that for every one rupee spent by the government, the private sector spends 8 rupees
It is believed that the economy may shrink due to the corona virus epidemic in the last quarter.

 

The impact of the global economic recession, especially in the neighboring country of India, is dire
In the next financial year due to the spill over effect that can be made in Nepal
Economic growth of Nepal It can be gradual.

Looking at past experiences, which year from various internal or external shocks or disasters
If it is affected, it seems that the next year the economy will go into recession. history
In general, the financial year 2036/37 was the year when the economy was in the most negative state. that year
The nominal economic growth rate is 10.63 percent and the real growth rate is 1.5 percent.
It was gradual. This was the effect of the Indian blockade. Similarly, the economy in the financial year 058/59
real Growth had fallen to 0.2 percent, when preliminary national accounts data for the year were released
If it is said that the economy has reached a declining state, then the accounting data will be adjusted and positive
A description of the increase is made.

Similarly, in the financial year 072/73, the economic growth rate fell to 0.6 percent. Earthquake happened 2072
Considering the year as the base year, the economic growth rate in the previous year 070/71 was around 7
As a percentage, the growth rate in 071/72 was 3.3 due to the impact of the earthquake in 072 Baisakh.
Seen to be the percentage and buy Financial for the first eight months of the financial year 071/72
Activities were being conducted as usual. So due to the earthquake, about 10 billion rupees
Despite the damage, about 48 percent of the economy was damaged, economic growth remained normal
Seemed equal to the average. But due to its influence and 072 October to January India Undeclared hope imposed due to economic restrictions in 072/73 real economic growth rate
It became gradual in level.

Based on this empirical evidence, corona virus after March of the current financial year
Economic this year despite the fact that the house arrest imposed in Nepal due to the epidemic has increased
The growth rate may remain between 3.5 to 4 percent of normal conditions, as discussed above
For 8 months of the financial year, the economy was in normal condition, but the impact of the global economic recession,
Especially in the neighboring country of India The spillover effect that can have a severe impact on Nepal
Due to (spill over effect), the economic growth rate of Nepal may be incremental in the next financial year.

Generally, the overall economic status of the country is calculated by the national accounts data and thus
The per capita income statement shows that the actual income base of Nepalis as a whole is represented
no This National Accounts data shows the parity of Vinod Chaudhary and Budhan Chowkri, while Vinod
Chaudhary's wealth is calculated in billions, while Budhan Chaudhary is a daily wage earner E morning-evening
The problem of how to collect money remains. Budhan Chaudhary is the most affected by the current house arrest
About 40 percent of the class belongs to Nepalis. In this, the poverty of daily over-wage
19 percent below the line and do not have their own land, squatters, floods and landslides etc.
Lost, small landowners who had just risen from poverty in the past decade but entered the middle class
22 percent of those who have not done so include the lower-middle class. Government through the local level in the informal sector
There is relief for the workers Planned that day, but no regular income, 6 of the year with his yield
Any other special economy that addresses this population of 12 million people who can eat even a month
If the rescue package is not brought, another type of economic crisis will occur in the country from next year.

 

 

The Prime Minister has said that he will bring programs to revive the economy from the next budget, but at the door
The coming crisis cannot wait for the budget to be brought after one and a half months. Now is the time to make a special decision
. The constitution empowers the government to take special decisions in times of crisis has been given the right to
Many times and thinkers at different levels, in the current situation, the government has completely funded the development of parliamentarians
They are suggesting to cancel it and put the amount in financial rescue packages. Especially now
Prime Minister's Employment Programme, Prime Minister's Agriculture Modernization Programme, Constituency Development (MP's
Pocket) by freezing the funds distributed under various headings including development programs now or Funds can be mobilized for financial rescue packages by transferring funds. If at present
If no concrete program can be announced to keep the economy running, to operate
If it is not done tomorrow, then the 150 million Nepalis discussed above will be pushed into extreme poverty
There is a risk that the government's dream of prosperity, the dream of upgrading the country to a developing nation will also be shattered
has increased

(News transaction, Baisakh 2, 2077) Crisis in Nenali media

Let's start this article with some relevant context.

Within a few months of the lockdown imposed due to the global corona virus epidemic, the major media
Nepal Republica Media Pvt Ltd, which is part of the House, has closed down the print edition of the national daily Republica
. Due to the fact that it cannot be operated during the crisis period, 11 journalists of the said daily were given the remaining salary
By paying money for other facilities, he was completely separated from employment. So publishing house later family
Monthly and Friday weekly also closed.

Inflows after lockdown NepalNews.com added 22 journalists working there because of the shutdown
Separated from publishing with 2 months salary. The media currently has 3 journalists online
is being operated. Himal Khabarpatrika and Nepali Times, the biggest media in Nepal
The Himalayan Times, a business daily, has meanwhile suspended print publication entirely in e-paper and online only
He focused himself. Most of the broadsheet dailies and a few with the exception of those published from the capital
Television stopped the salaries of journalists in whole or in part during the shutdown period Just made the payment.

Online media including Thaha Khabar, Online Khabar, Nepal Live, Nepal Khabar also work
In the name of reduction or rotation system, journalists were sent on leave or removed from employment.
Anvapurna Post came under pressure from the management to remove the journalist in the middle of the ban
Editor-in-Chief Hari Bahadur Thapa resigned from the organization.

The economic recession of a new nature caused by the covid-19 has had a serious impact on the economy around the world
is Nepali media sector is no exception. Such a big crisis collectively Nepali media in history
Never had to suffer. When major economic activities are completely stopped and
Advertising income and other revenues of media when activities such as traffic are affected
Income has almost dried up. Closure of publication, reduction of journalist or salary, compulsory leave
Communication organizations are forced to make decisions including sending. At present there are 741 daily, 39 semi-weekly, 2,953 weekly, 474 fortnightly, 2,342 monthly in the country.
There is a total of 7,801 registered newspapers. Licensed 941 FM Radio (on regular broadcast
672), 170 licensed televisions (51 in regular broadcasting), 1845 registered with the Information Department
There are also online media (source: Ministry of Information and Technology, Chaitra 2076). In all these media
The Great Depression had a severe impact.

Investment, profit

Advertising income and revenue income have certainly been adversely affected, but what Nepali media Ud in yoga
The lack of resources to endure the crisis was still sudden?

With the exception of the government media, almost all media have been dependent on the advertising market. Nepal
According to Nirmalraj Paudel, former president of Advertising Association (AN), the current annual size of the advertising market
9 billion rupees, 75 percent of which is published from within the Kathmandu Valley
Broadsheets are occupied by dailies, radio and television.

The media of the valley dominates even the advertisements that are transmitted from the Mofusal, so the local ones
media group Jhalak, the editor of Dainik Nepalgunj, says that there is a problem in the hall. "Let's go to Kathmandu
Laws like the Public Procurement Act were created by the centralized mindset of centralized policy makers
Showing that there is a tendency to give the information that should be published and broadcast for Mofsal in the media of Kathmandu.
Gary said.

Only about 5,500 media outlets that are regularly publishing or operating across the country
18,000 journalists and nearly 50,000 people from distribution to technicians were employed before the pandemic
were

Most journalists They are living on the income of salary and allowance from regular work
In the last decade, with the increase in the number of self-employed small online media in those media
The few working manpower survives on advertising and a few small grants provided by local governments
. Salaries of journalists working in government media from the grant budget received from the state
Even though they are fed, private media are running on advertisement income. Nepal Media says that there is an investment of around 1 trillion rupees in the media sector of Nepal
Society. There is no official data anywhere. Adding up all the investments “two billion in the entire media industry
It seems that there is an investment of more than Rs. The relevant thing here is Nepali media
How much profit do they make and how much salary and services they give (or not give) to journalists, workers
Is it fair?

Especially in large and organized media, transparency in how much investment has been counted from which sources
No, so am I There is no public accounting of profits. Businessmen investing in other sectors
Accusations of investing in the media with the aim of gaining undisclosed money and political access
has done Along with this, to suspect that media is being invested for the purpose of money laundering
has been done

Salary allowance facility for most of the media workers working in major media outlets operating across Nepal
Although they are attractive, how much income do those media earn annually, how much is the monthly operating cost?
A lot of formal information flow practice is less The first broadsheet of private sector Dainik Kantipur
Until a few years ago, the publishing house used to distribute some amount for the journalists on the anniversary as a bonus
Even the amount of profit was never disclosed.

Impact of Covid-19

Gradually expanded after 2049 with economic liberalization but excessive due to small market
For Nepal's communication sector, which is facing a huge competition, Covid-19 is a great crisis
appeared. With the lockdown imposed by the government, it is not only Mofsal who is in fear of spreading the virus.
Communication within Kathmandu Lit daily newspapers have also suspended publication

During the survey of the financial impact of the epidemic on the media and journalists, 9 dailies of Jhapa, 20
More than weekly, 3 monthly newspapers and 14 daily newspapers of Nepalgunj have been completely closed
Local media persons have given information.

The monitoring report of the Federation of Nepalese Journalists on the impact of the new coronavirus on the media (May 27,
According to 2077), now journalists are not getting regular salaries and their salaries have also been reduced. Likewise
Fired, placed on unpaid leave, etc They also paid only the last day's salary It is mentioned in the report. Some journalists have been sent home on the condition that they come when called
Media house has been unilaterally transferred internally.

According to the report, it is not certain whether the displaced will return to work or not; Even dependent families
Mental stress has increased. More economical as most of the families are dependent on the single income of the journalist
They are in crisis.

Due to all these reasons, journalists are facing problems in earning a living and media houses are in extreme financial crisis
The report also mentioned. Unable to meet its operating expenses Most of the time after coming
Media operators cut the jobs of journalists and staff, send them on unpaid leave, salaries
He did things like reduction.

The Federation of Nepalese Journalists has decided to expel working journalists from their service, not to pay them
Deducting wages unilaterally, not providing working environment under various pretexts, resigning
The Federation has warned of a strong protest against the continuation of acts like pressure.

In the mentioned survey conducted among journalists across the country, about 43 percent of the reasons are due to Covid-19
the letter Carr said he lost his job in whole or in part. About 64 of the journalists who lost their jobs this way
percent in print media, 17 percent in online media and about 19 percent in FM radio
used to It has been found that nearly 3,000 journalists across the country are in crisis. Media professionals
He suspects that this ratio is even greater.

Media operators in the name of cost cutting along with the decrease in media advertising income
Dismissal of journalists, non-renewal of contracts, shift system for short-term employees
In the service of saying He started doing things that would not continue. The media, including the Republic, recently took a similar step
move To the journalist saying that the service cannot be continued due to the loss of income due to the lockdown
Bishnu Tamang, a former reporter of NepalNews.com, says that he has been dismissed from service.

According to Ramesh Bista, Secretary General of Nepal Journalist Federation, Citizen, Annapurna Post, Kantipur etc
Journalists in almost all major media houses have been laid off, salaries cut,
He was forced to stay on unpaid leave in the federation Jurisdiction
is The Federation of Journalists has fired or dismissed journalists in various media establishments
Prepared, unpaid or reduced pay, pressured to stay on unpaid leave, vehicles, etc
Complaints such as cutting facilities and creating an environment that makes it impossible for them to come to work
Information has been given. Kantipur, Annapurna Post, Citizen, Naya Patrika, Rajdhani and News 24, Avenues,
Working in communication institutes including Mountain, Himalaya and other TV and Orudat FM
After the journalists made this kind of complaint, the federation lost its reputation Correspondence for problem solving
It has also been said.

According to Paudel, the former president of AAN, the average monthly advertising turnover is 75 to 80 million rupees
After the closure, the business has dropped to zero. Private media participating in the survey
The operators said that they could not raise up to 80 percent of their total turnover.
Even in the daily newspapers published from the capital, only a small proportion of advertisements are now published
are happening Old as the advertising manager of a daily cannot leave the newspaper empty Advertising
Said it was printing.

"Due to Covid-19, the revenue was yet to be raised not only after March, but even before that, June
It stopped completely due to the blockade," said Gopal Kafle, journalist of Birtamod Jhapa. Bhadrapur, Jhapa
Another journalist, Taramani Sapkota, received all advertisements and payments from the capital due to the ban
It says stopped.

 

Small investment media operators continued media operations due to the three-month-long shutdown
He says that it is difficult to do. "Although we have reduced the size of the magazine so far to the publication
We continued, but 14 out of 16 dailies of Nepalgunj were created in the meantime, how many of them now?
It is not possible to say whether they can come into operation," Jhalak Gayrai, editor of Dainik Nepalgunj
says

About 62 percent of those surveyed reported at least 25 to 75 percent of their salary
Of the cuts, 18 percent said they had not received salary payments, while 20 percent said no impact

He said that he did not. Non-payment and salary deductions are a big problem mostly in Mofsal
Seen in mainstream media. Stringer correspondents of major media working in Mofsal reported that news gathering, communication was hampered,
He said that he did not get salary allowance from the center and there was not enough arrangement for health protection. Main across the country
Most of the dailies published in urban areas were completely shut down for the first 80 days of the ban
Regional editions of daily newspapers published from Kathmandu were also completely suspended.

For a few days of the ban, the distribution of newspapers was stopped because the corona virus was also spread through newspapers
was; Some daily Mr Dia houses give masks, gloves to their distributors for newspaper distribution
Despite being sent, the customers did not pick up the leaflets that were thrown in their home compound.

After the outdoor sale of newspapers was completely stopped, some newspapers including Citizen Daily
He arranged to distribute free newspapers in various public places. No ads now
Almost all dailies have increased the number of pages of newspapers since the publication costs of such magazines have become prohibitive
have reduced

Need for a management plan

Newspapers in Nepal for more than a hundred years It has been in production for three decades
Although private media are operating professionally, most of them are without financial management plan
They are trapped in the current crisis because of the past. Management in most media houses in Nepal
It does not seem to have been planned, as a result regular salaries even before the lockout
The media earned a reputation for not giving and hiring and firing journalists in a haphazard manner
They used the blockade more as a weapon," Vijay Paudel, former news chief of Image Channel
says

Journalist Poudel from Nepal Media operators often recognize media as an industry
Even though they demand to be given, they say that they do not follow the basic principles of industry and business. “Lasted for years
Even in institutional business media, there is not enough operating capital and during such crises, journalists and
Because they could not pay the salary of the employees even for 6 months, they focused on fund management
No," said Paudel. Its former president, Nirmal Paudel, also said that Nepal's media will operate on the basis of immediate income.
It is said that this crisis has occurred because of this. "How many businesses do the media now have,
"There is no plan for how much business will come next year," said Paudel.

Because there is no advertising culture in Nepal, the Nepali media and the entire media are affected by Covid-19
He believes that the advertising sector has faced a crisis. Promotion of advertising or dissemination of information
Tendency to see it as an expense rather than a necessity Therefore, in the current crisis situation
Most of the big advertisers have stopped advertising in the name of cost reduction, this affects the Nepali media
It is in the area," he said

Journalists and relief

With the Covid-19 crisis, most of the large and medium media across the country have either cut staff,
Most of the journalists, neither from the organization they work for, nor from the organization where they have stopped or reduced their salaries
You can get relief from the Federation of Journalists or other journalism-related organizations. 70 of the survey participants
Percentage of journalists said that they did not get relief 23 percent received relief and 7 percent needed relief
They said that it was not taken. 16 percent of those receiving relief received relief from the organization they worked for
avert fare |

Elsewhere, there are examples of relief arrangements from the government level as well. As some
The governments of Scandinavian countries pay journalists even if they do not go to work for 4-6 months of the pandemic
Arrangements have been made to provide facilities. Australian Government communications affected by COVID-19
Various packages of relief were provided for the mediums, including Public Concern Sum Pickles
From a $50 million program for collections to tax breaks and a separate plan aimed at small publications
was carried forward. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government of Pakistan distributes relief for local journalists
had done

International organizations such as Google, Facebook, National Geographic, Pulitzer Center etc. of Covid-19
He has announced grants, fellowships, etc. for journalists who are in crisis. In Nepal
So far, the government has no concrete package program for the media and media workers affected by Covid-19
It has not been announced. 75 percent of journalists are uninsured

In a profession where you always have to work at risk, insurance is even more important in the event of an epidemic
it happens It was found that 75 percent of the journalists participating in the survey did not have life insurance. Among the participants
38 percent have health insurance and only 12 percent have just started corona insurance
have said. Some limited media and Nepal Economic Journalist Association, Nepal Journalist
Journalist affiliated organizations with some branches of the federation entered into an agreement with the life insurance company
Get corona insurance collectively He started.

Non-life insurance companies from 500 to 1000 rupees per person in single and
In institutional/collective, they do corona insurance from 300 to 500 rupees. Under such insurance
In case of Corona, the cost of treatment is between 50 thousand to 1 lakh rupees
The insurance company will pay the treatment cost equal to the amount. This is only a very small result.
This shows that Nepali journalists are without social security and personal security.

Journalism that has to work in the midst of lack of money The financial risk that insurance covers for others, unexpected
It also helps to cope with loss or uncertainty easily.

the way forward

The Covid-19 crisis has taught the Nepali media some lessons about the effectiveness of the communication sector
It has provided an opportunity to present itself more strongly. This is especially true of television and online media
Increased role and accountability. Confused and factual with the worldwide covid-19 pandemic
Added responsibility for the media to be more responsible when communicating information that is not there
of the press Kishore Shrestha, executive chairman of UNSIL Nepal, says:

Audiovisual media during crisis with proper measures to prevent epidemics
Publishing and broadcasting content, not publishing unauthentic information and providing as much accurate information as possible.
Inadequate preparation by the government, including the protection of lives of citizens, information on the opaque procurement process
Online media played an effective role in communication during the crisis. All media operators in Nepal will now immediately make effective management plans,
Establishing a special fund for crisis management by allocating a certain amount from operating expenses and costs
Most of the journalists participating in the study emphasized that attention should be paid to this matter. Most of the time
Participating journalists do not have financial shortages with most of Nepal's media operators
have raised the question, because some media are not only during the lockdown period, but before it
Salary benefits have also been stopped.

Government through Media Development Fund So additional investment in distressed media, to fund interest
Grants, online media also to provide public welfare advertising, employment
Journalists' opinion that the lost journalists should be given immediate financial assistance through the Press Council
is Similarly, the media operators in the professional, employment and crisis situations of journalists
Social security should be guaranteed, and for this, professional organizations including the Federation of Journalists
Journalists are of the opinion that effective pressure should be created.

 

Government because of covid-19 Affected journalists and media working at this time, their journalists
The journalists also suggested that employees should be encouraged. Other times it was from the profit earned
He also stressed on the need to create a comfortable environment for the employees. A must for everyone
Without interest to reduce the financial damage caused to the media houses due to Corona with insurance
It is suggested that there should be a provision for paying a certain percentage of the total capital of the company for some years
have given

Amidst the pandemic, there is a huge economic crisis, Finance Management Not fair to planners and communicators
In the absence of justice, the crisis of trust will be more far-reaching and costly.

(Editorial note: Recently, Kantipur Dainik has closed weekly, Nari and Nepal magazines
6 decade old Jagdamba Press has been closed). (This content is from the Media Foundation's COVID-19 Media
It has been prepared with the support of Humanity United under the outreach program. expressed in the article
Viewpoints are the author's) June 13, 2077 Section-B
the news

55 percent of Nepali people lost Nivikoparnana fair because of Ghaibandi

Almost five months long, which was adopted from Chait 11 to prevent the spread of the infection of Covid-19
Half of the population lost their means of income and livelihood during the lockdown period
|

In a nationwide survey conducted by UNICEF and Sharecast Initiative Nepal last May, 55 percent of Nepalis
He said that he lost his income. Among 7 thousand 500 households representing all over the country
The survey was conducted by UNICEF, which found that 85 percent of municipalities was included. covid-
The latter comes as various studies are published on the socio-economic impact of 19
This study, which has been published several times, has shown alarming details. Previous studies
Showing that about one-third of Nepalis have lost their income and livelihood due to house arrest
have come

The participants of Province 2 are among those who state that they have lost the most income due to house arrest, So
72 percent of the survey participants in the province said that they have lost their income. Similarly, 59 from Bagmati
By percentage, 55 per province 5 Shat, Province 1 and 48 percent of Far West, 36 percent of Gandaki,
35 percent of Karnali said they have lost their income.

Those who lose income or livelihood due to house arrest are the most
This study has shown that in sub-metropolitan cities. 61 percent of sub-metropolitan municipalities
He said he lost his income. Likewise, 55 percent of rural municipalities, 54 percent of municipalities
percent and 51 percent of the metropolitan city have said that they have lost their income.

No access to alternative education Most worryingly, schools have gone online in recent days due to the Covid-19 pandemic
Even though classes are running, only one-third of the children have access to such distance education, but half of them
Not used at all.

Of the survey participants, 68 percent did not have access to alternative education and 29 percent did
Only half said that they were able to use it. This is a huge cause of covid-19
The ratio shows that children have lost opportunities for study and learning. 95 out of total participants
percent of their children due to house arrest He said that he could not go to school.

82 percent of children from families whose average income is less than 10,000 rupees are in such distance education
Even if there is no access, 95 percent of children have not been able to use it. This poverty
Below the line is the population below. Similarly, 77 percent of families with an average income of Rs. 20,000
If children do not have access to distance learning, only 9 percent of the 23 percent have access to this category
Studies have shown that such alternative education techniques are used.

14 percent people with disabilities

S It was found that 14 percent of the families participating in the survey had some form of disability. this
It is more than the estimates made so far. So far, an average of 10 percent of Nepalis have some or the other
He was said to have some kind of disability. According to this survey, one out of every five families
Children are found to have some kind of disability.

(News Transactions, 27 July, 2077) A total of more than three billion rupees is required for economic recovery

In crisis due to the house arrest imposed to prevent the infection of the new corona virus (Covid-19).
Revival package of more than three and a half trillion rupees for the restoration of the Nepalese economy
A United Nations study shows that it is necessary. United for Asia and the Pacific
“Covid-19 and South Asia: National Strategies
and sub-regional cooperation for inclusive, sustainable and resilient recovery' With covid-19
Gross Domestic Product to get rid of the impact on the socio-economic sector of Nepal
It has been pointed out that a revival (stimulation) package equal to 9 percent of (GDP) is necessary.

Considering the estimated GDP size of the last financial year 2076/77 is 37 trillion 47 billion rupees, about 3
An economic revival package worth 39 billion rupees is needed. In this economic
1 trillion 31 billion for rehabilitation (3.5 percent of GDP), 1 trillion 50 for social security
billion (4 percent of GDP) and public health 56 billion 50 crores (of GDP) for infrastructure
1.5 percent) UNSCAP said that a package worth Rs.

To avoid the impact on the economy due to covid-19 and conduct economic recovery programs
To date, the World Bank has provided 29 million US dollars from the "Fast Track", Asian Development
Bank (ADB) with $250 million and International Monetary Fund (IMF) for “Paid financing
It is mentioned in the report that assistance of 214 million dollars has been received from the Instrument' (RFI).
is In addition, Nepal's RFI Support has also been received from the payment plan. All these amounts
In addition, Nepal has provided around 60 billion rupees worth of aid to restore the economy after Covid-19
Commitments have been received, including other budgetary and project support recently announced by the World Bank
When added, it is more than one billion rupees. As donors continue to announce aid, the economy recovers
If the amount is not enough, the government has to mobilize from its internal resources.

According to the report, 2.27 million people in Nepal lost their jobs during the lockdown period and about
2.1 million NEPA The Lees are again trapped in extreme poverty. According to this, due to house arrest, about 7
Poverty has increased by a percentage point. This was done by the International Labor Organization (ILO) before the national A little less than expected. The ILO said that 37 million Nepalis lost their jobs.
A large population of the South Asian region is dependent on informal sector labor and long term
Due to loss of employment and income, they are pushed below the poverty line. Especially from poverty
A large population that has risen to the top and is close to the poverty line has lost jobs and income
But due to lack of adequate social security, they are again pushed into extreme poverty.

Poor health, limited access to water and sanitation facilities, medical care and testing Low access and
The lack of basic health care results in the proliferation of people around the poverty line
It is pointed out in the report that people can fall into the trap of extreme poverty along with the acute risk of infection. UNSCAP
Adopted for controlling Covid-19 based on standard of USD 1.90 per day
13 more in just five South Asian countries - Nepal, India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka - due to measures
It is said that 1.8 million people will be trapped in extreme poverty. Mostly due to covid-19
107.6 million 60 thousand new poor will be added in India If there are 1 crore 17 lakh 30 in Bangladesh
thousand, 1 crore in Pakistan, 2150 thousand in Nepal and 260 thousand in Sri Lanka
Extreme fat will be added.

People living in rural areas and urban slums from clean water, basic sanitation and health care
In the report, such people are more at risk of being infected with Covid-19 due to deprivation
It is pointed out. According to the report, 54 percent of the total urban population in Nepal lives in slums. “June
Lack of clean drinking water in families, collection of water for women and girls, viz Dar and
burdened by management, they are at greater risk of contracting Covid-19,” the report said
It is said, “In Nepal and Afghanistan, about 80 percent of families are classified as poor
You have to travel a long distance to get health services.'

 

20.6 percent of people with disabilities compared to the general population according to UNscape
The ratio has pointed out the risks faced by the poor. Compared to Sang people
People with disabilities are two to six times less likely to be employed
UNESCO Yap's research has shown. Mobility and strength of persons with disabilities
Faced with major challenges in access to healthcare, education and other essential services due to scarcity
The report pointed out. This causes health, poverty and livelihood risks People with disabilities are most vulnerable to the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic
It is mentioned in the report written in the situation.

(News Transactions, July 26, 2077) 24 billion damage to Nepal's tourism due to Covid-19

Tourists during the period from April to May due to the global health crisis covid-19 pandemic
Arrivals fell by an average of 49 percent, according to the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO).
is Adding the 100 percent decrease in tourist arrivals in May and June, the first 6 of the year 2000
Tourist arrivals in Nepal have decreased by an average of 55 percent per month. It increases Nepal's tourism income and with it
A serious loss has been inflicted on the cycle of all economic activities connected.

In the year 2019, Nepal tourism Year for earning 700 million US dollars from the sector
In 2020, the total tourism income has decreased by 28 percent, announced by UNWTO
It is mentioned in the World Tourism Barometer. However, according to Nepal government data in 2019
Nepal earned 724.3 million US dollars from the tourism sector. base it
Looking at the amount made, Nepal's tourism sector made 200 million US dollars in the first 5 months, i.e. approx
It seems that the income of 24 billion rupees has been lost. Tourism businessmen of Nepal said Covid-19
Mahama It has been said that there has been a loss of one trillion rupees in Nepal's tourism industry due to Re.

The Government of Nepal has announced that the year 2020 will be celebrated as Visit Nepal and this year 20 lakhs
The goal was to bring in tourists. Considering this as the basis of the goal, the infection of Covid-19 should not spread
One million tourists from coming to Nepal in the first 6 months due to the travel ban
Deprived. Even if we look at the same ratio as last year, more than 6 lakh tourists from Covid-19 in these 6 months
Because they could not come to Nepal.

According to UNWTO, of Covid-19 Because during the first 5 months of 2020
The global tourism industry has lost $3.2 trillion in revenue. World Tourism
According to Barometer, global tourism traffic averaged 56 percent during this five-month period
The biggest drop in tourists was in the Asia-Pacific region by 60 percent.

South Asia has an average of 47 percent less tourists, while Nepal, Sri Lanka and the Maldives have an average of 50 percent
According to the barometer, there is a decrease in the number of tourists in the month of May
98 percent decline in based passengers At that time, there was a hundred percent decrease in countries including Nepal
mentioned in the barometer. There are currently 138 star hotels and 1,151 tourist-level hotels in Nepal, including 15 five-star hotels
According to the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation, the hotel is in operation. Hotel Association
According to Of Nepal (HAN), currently only about 7 lakh people stay in star and tourist level hotels
directly employed]

Similarly, 3 thousand 680 travel agencies, 2 thousand 764 trekking agencies are operating and 4 across the country.
There are 1,200 travelers and 17,626 trekking guides. 12 when one person climbs a mountain
Chosen by Jana Sherpas, climbing assistants and chiefs There is a figure of getting gari.

1 lakh across the country according to the recently completed National Economic Survey-2018 by the Central Statistics Department
There are 30 thousand 540 hotels and restaurants in operation, in which 3 lakh 46 thousand people are involved. this
10.7% of total industrial-commercial employment.

The World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) said that in Nepal's tourism sector, 1 million 34 thousand
He mentioned that he got a job. Travel ban due to covid-19 epidemic for last five months
After being introduced, these professionals and employment in the tourism sector People who are affected are in crisis. COVID-19 Affects Sustainable Disaster Goals: Strategy Experience

The National Planning Commission has set sustainable development targets due to the new corona virus epidemic (Covid-19).
(SDG) implementation has been affected. The Commission recently implemented the SDGs
In the national implementation report prepared on the situation, the people of Nepal who were affected after the earthquake of 2072
It is mentioned that Covid-19 has further pushed development efforts. On the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals
It is the second national report prepared by Nepal. According to the report, sustainable development due to the Covid-19 epidemic
attention So far achieved in the socio-economic status of the country without weakening
It has been pointed out that there may be long-term effects.

A large part of Nepal's economy is dependent on the informal sector due to the Covid-19 epidemic
It is seen that there will be a long-term impact on the economy. Most economic indicators satisfactory till February
However, since then, the commission has said that there has been a wide impact on the overall economic activities. “Its
Although the impact is not expected to be as serious as other countries, but the reduction in economic growth rate will lead to poverty and
Cumulative rate of employment It will have a serious impact,' the commission said.

Disruptions to global trade, restrictions on the movement of citizens, major declines in tourism,
A sharp decline in global demand and slow growth of the global economy in Nepal in the long run
The Commission has pointed out the risk of adverse consequences. A massive decline in economic activity
This leads to a contraction in revenue and credit flow and this from public infrastructure construction to the private sector
Risks are pointed out in the report that could negatively impact economic activity.

principal B. The Commission is of the opinion that the export will also be reduced along with the decrease in demand in trading partner countries.
Similarly, labor demand in foreign labor destinations is decreasing and in economic activities in Nepal
The commission said that the rising unemployment rate could pose a serious challenge along with the creation of barriers.
Similarly, the tourism sector is seriously affected as it directly and indirectly involved in this industry
It has been pointed out that it will negatively affect the livelihood of thousands of people.

Like other disasters, this epidemic is already the most dangerous Those who are poor and needy
The commission said it further widened inequality, affecting people from marginalized groups
There is a saying. In turn, the covid-19 pandemic will increase poverty and cause huge job losses due to the pandemic It is mentioned that there is a serious threat to the food security of the number of citizens. of long-term lockdowns
Because economic activities have come to a standstill, daily wage workers suffer the most
It is in the report.

Due to the increase in food prices with the lockdown, food security has weakened and poverty reduction has so far been achieved
The Commission is of the opinion that the risk of reversal of achievements has increased. Women's income and labor force due to pandemic
The risk of reduction in participation rate has also been pointed out in the report. Because of this, many women
They had to face difficulties and they did Increased risk of being trapped or unsafe
It is mentioned in the report of the commission.

After the lockdown, household, small and medium industries, small businesses run by individuals and hospitality
A large number of Nepalis are unemployed after the closure of the industry, mostly women in these areas
Those who are employed are at risk. Similarly, in the health sector, Nepal holds the indicators
Although significant progress has been achieved, it is said that this epidemic has affected those efforts.
In particular, treatment of other diseases including vaccination programs etc It has an adverse effect on Riya
It is mentioned in the report.

The Planning Commission has said that due to the epidemic, the education sector has been most affected. After the lockdown
Although most schools and colleges continue the online learning process, this past teaching
Inequalities in education caused by digital divide between rich and poor, not as effective as methods
The risk of widening has been pointed out by the Commission.

(News Transactions, July 16, 2077) Nepal's economic growth is only 0.5 percent: World Bank

Due to the Corona virus (Covid-19) epidemic, the economic growth rate of Nepal is at 0.5 percent, according to the World Bank
It has been estimated that it may be limited. Earlier, the bank estimated Nepal's growth rate at 1.5 to 2.8 percent
It was projected to be in the middle. Bank approves new installment for improvement of school sector for Nepal
Prepared during the “Evaluation Phase – Program Information Document (PID) of COVID-19
Disasters and widespread and long-term lockdowns and supply disruptions have slowed economic growth 0.5 per second
It is mentioned that it can be reduced to a percentage.

This is less than the projection made by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Currency fund also initially of Nepal
If the growth rate is 2.5 percent, the growth rate will be reduced to 1 percent in a position paper issued for Nepal
mentioned. The government's initial estimate is 2.3 percent in the current fiscal year 2076/77
has done This is based on the expectation that the Central Statistics Department will continue the lockdown till May 15
had guessed.

This contraction in economic growth in the next financial year 2077/78 (2021).
It is estimated. According to the bank, the growth rate of Nepal in the year 2021 will be 2.1 percent. However, extensive
If the spread of Covid-19 ends and more crops are grown and the growth rate is higher due to the festival
The bank says it will shrink by 2.8 percent.

Poverty flows through layers

Meanwhile, a study conducted for the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) found that Covid-19
Due to the epidemic, the risk of increasing poverty in Nepal has been pointed out. For UNDP
IIDS's "Socio-Economic Impact of Covid-19 in Nepal". Rut Valati'
The population of Nepal currently lives on an average income of less than US$ 2 per day

57.3 percent of the population living below the poverty line due to epidemics
It is mentioned that the number will increase.

Out of poverty due to loss of employment and income due to the lockdown imposed to prevent the epidemic
One out of every two people who leave is more likely to be pushed back below the poverty line,” the report said It has been said. In the report, the domestic, small and medium industries of Nepal due to the Covid-19 epidemic
It is mentioned that businesses have been affected the most and this has also seriously affected the overall employment.
According to the report, due to the long-term lockdown, Nepal's food and housing, maintenance,
Transport, dairy and animal husbandry are the most affected.

The dream of upgrading was also pushed

Due to covid-19, Nepal is a dream of upgrading from a least developed country to a developing country
It has also been pushed for the next five-six years. Earlier, Nepal in 2022 To be upgraded
The revised target was set.

In the Thirteenth Plan, the Government of Nepal had set the goal of becoming a developing country by the year 2022
The Fourteenth Plan aims to upgrade middle-income countries by the year 2030
Theo, which is also continuous in the fifteenth plan.

Although Nepal is not on the basis of income, it can already be upgraded based on the other two indicators
However, for the time being, this period has been pushed,' IIDS President and National Planning
Dr. Swarnim Wagle, former vice-chairman of the Commission, says- "Covid-19 pandemic directly on the upgrade indicator
Even if it does not affect the overall economic and social indicators, the upgrade is also a few years old
can be pushed for.'

 

According to him, due to the Covid-19 epidemic, Nepal's gross domestic product (GDP) will decrease
As the year shrinks, it will also shrink the per capita income growth rate of Nepalese, which
It is one of the three indicators required for upgrading. Among other indicators is the Human Assets Index,
economic risk index rainfall); : Since the evaluation is based on the progress made This year education,
Due to the impact on the health and nutrition sectors, Dr. Wagle's

There is a saying.

(News Transactions, June 31, 2077) 1.2 trillion ILA loss in world tourism due to Konena effect

Due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) epidemic, global travel has been disrupted for about four months
The world tourism sector generates at least 1.2 trillion US dollars or the world's gross domestic product
1.5 percent of the (GDP) to be borne by the United Nations Trade and Development Organization
(Anktad) said. UNCTAD announced the impact of Covid-19 on the global tourism industry
In the impact report, if there is a break in international tourism for up to 8 months a From this if there is any
The damage is estimated to reach 2.2 trillion US dollars or 2.8 percent of global GDP. this
Estimates by the United Nations Tourism Organization (UNWTO) are equal.

According to UNCTAD, the worst-case scenario is a 12-month disruption to international tourism
If reached, the global tourism industry could lose $3.3 trillion, or 4.2 percent of total global GDP
will fall According to the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), tourism is the mainstay of the economy of many countries in the world
It has been and millions of the world Mentioned as the basis of human livelihood, in the last 20 years
The contribution of the tourism industry increased from 4 trillion 90 billion dollars to more than 16 trillion US dollars
It is mentioned in the report. When the epidemic of covid-19 stopped it, serious economic on a global level
Antaad said that it caused the crisis.

 

Tourism is a major source of employment for many developed and developing countries
It is also a major source of revenue and foreign exchange earnings, without this important livelihood base
The country experienced a dramatic contraction in GDP and increased unemployment will experience," the report said. something
Lockdown measures implemented in countries, travel restrictions, on the disposable income of consumers
Cuts and low confidence levels could slow the pace of tourism's recovery, the agency said
warned. Although tourism activity is slowly increasing again in some countries, it is in most countries
Since tourism is stagnant, the restoration of this area is seen to be slow.

Travel and tourism account for a significant portion of global GDP and the national income of many countries
contributed more than half According to UNCTAD, international tourism income of one million dollars
It is said that the national income of the country will decrease by 2 million to 3 million US dollars due to damage. the tourist
and goods spent by travelers on holidays, including food, drink and entertainment And due to the corona virus, only tourism is contributing to other sectors of the economy including services
It is mentioned in the report that other sectors of the economy are also losing.

(News Transactions, June 18, 2077) World economic growth will be affected by [] [] percent

The growth rate of least developed countries is -1 percent

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said that the global economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 outbreak this year
It has been said that the crisis has been felt before this and the restoration is also uncertain. currency
The Fund is releasing an updated version of the World Economic Outlook (WEO) globally this year
The growth rate will shrink by 4.9 percent. of the WEO issued this past April
1.9 percentage points lower than forecast yes

The spread of the covid epidemic has been faster than expected and measures have been taken to stop its spread
Due to measures like lockdown, global economic activity is higher than previously estimated
The fund says that there has been a contraction. During the first half of 2020, the Covid-19 epidemic
The first of the year 2021 by Mudra Fund, saying that it had a negative impact that was much larger than the estimate
After the quarter, it is expected that the world economy will gradually go into the recovery stage.

Geeta Gopinath, Chief Economist of the Monetary Fund, due to the Covid-19 crisis 12.5 in the global economy
The per capita income of 90 percent of the countries will fall, saying that there will be a loss of trillions of US dollars
I didn't tell. According to the Fund, the world economy will achieve a recovery of "V Sap", meaning this year
The global economy, which is declining by a very large number, will again catch the rhythm of positive growth in the coming year.
According to the IMF, the world economy will grow by 5.4 percent in 2021.

 

Economist Gopinath said that due to this crisis, the burden of governments around the world will increase
Governments He said that he should create a strong financial base.

Growth rate of LDCs to contract by 1 percent

Although there is no separate projection for Nepal in the updated version of the WEO, the IMF has developed very little
Countries (LDCs) said growth would contract by 1 percent, down from the April estimate of 1.4
The currency fund has informed that it has decreased by a percentage point. Except for a few large economies in this group
According to the IMF report, the economic growth rate of least developed countries will shrink by 2.2 percent
is mentioned. In a position paper published by the fund last May, the economic growth rate of Nepal this year is only 1 percent
It said that it will remain and in the next year, 2021, it will improve to 3.5 percent. Current global
The crisis has hit low-income households hard and it has led to global poverty
The fund says it will affect progress made in the area of ​​mitigation. A large number of informal jobs
Working away from home with unemployment due to long-term lockdowns in participating countries
When the income of migrant workers decreases The report mentions that it has increased poverty and inequality
is

In addition, widespread school closures in at least 150 countries around the world until the end of May
12 billion students affected globally due to lack of education due to low income
Loss of learning opportunities for children in developed countries negatively affects their income prospects
The fund said that it has been affected.

The Monetary Fund has said that the growth rate of neighboring India will shrink by 4.5 percent. Long term
The Indian economy has previously suffered due to the lockdown and slow recovery At a higher rate than bid
It is said that the fund will shrink. Advanced economies are expected to grow by 8 percent this year, according to the IMF
It will remain incremental, which is 1.9 percentage points lower than the previous forecast. These developed
8 percent of the economy of the United States, 5.8 percent of Japan, 10.2 percent of the United Kingdom, Germany
By 7.8 percent, France by 12.5 percent and Italy and Spain's growth rate by 12.8 percent.
will remain Similarly, the growth rate of emerging market and developed economies will remain incremental at 2 percent
J However, this is 2 percent lower than the April forecast.

(News Transactions, June 10, 2077) Covid-19 could cost the world $8 trillion: AUB

The loss of South Asia will reach 2 trillion 18 billion ilp

Asian Development Bank (ADB) due to the Noble Corona virus (Covid-19) in the global economy
It has published a new estimate of the damage ranging from 58 billion to 88 billion US dollars. It's global
According to ADB, it is equal to 6.4 percent to 9.7 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP).
. The Bank published “Potential Economic Impact of Covid-19: An Updated Assessment”
In the report if this crisis 3 months Asia and the Pacific region of 17 billion US dollars
(6.2 percent of regional GDP) and $25 trillion in losses if extended for 6 months.
The losses are projected to be 9.3 percent of regional GDP, a third of global losses
yes

South Asia alone has to bear losses of 1 trillion 42 billion dollars to 2 trillion 18 billion US dollars
It is mentioned in the report. Although there is no separate mention of Nepal in the bank's position paper, India, Bangladesh,
Adopted by countries including Pakistan Due to the various restrictions imposed by the South Asian, this loss
It is mentioned to bear. The bank has closed the border area to prevent the spread of the infection of Covid-19.
US$17 trillion to US$26 trillion in global trade due to travel bans and lockdowns
It is said that there will be a decline.

Similarly, this is the reason why the global employment from 158 million to 242 million jobs
It is estimated that 70 percent of total employment will be cut in the Asia Pacific region alone
has been done Globally due to job cuts 12 billion to 18 billion in labor income
According to the bank's report, up to 30 percent of the decline in the US dollar is in the Asia-Pacific region
There will be cuts in the area. In monetary terms, labor income in this sector is US$59 billion to US$55 billion
According to the bank, there will be a decrease of up to USD.

Governments around the world have introduced budgetary and monetary easing to deal with the pandemic, including health spending
Adoption of measures like direct assistance to cover shortfalls in growth, income and revenue
The bank has mentioned. Because of these efforts, the world 30 to 40 in widespread economic damage It is said that it will help to reduce up to 41 billion to 54 billion US dollars
The conclusion of the bank is that there will be a decrease.

(News Transactions, May 2, 2077) 'World economy in Great Depression, 3 per cent progressive'

WORLD ECONOMIC OUTLOOK APRIL 2020

GROWTH PROJECTIONS

The COVID-19 health crisis will have a severe impact on economic activity in 2020

GLOBAL ADVANCED EMERGING MARKETS &
ECONOMY ECONOMIES DEVELOPING ECONOMIES

6.6
so TPA | a

Eva
Ey -6.1 |

2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021

Source: International Monetary Fund

   

www.newskarobar.com
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) called the Noble Corona virus pandemic (Covid-19) a cause
World economy in 2020 But it is said that it is trapped in the Great Depression. “World
According to Economic Outlook-2020, the world economy will grow by 3 percent this year
will get stuck
Due to the fact that the highest impact of the corona virus is on the countries with the most developed economies
According to the Monetary Fund, the economic growth rate of those countries will increase by 6.1 percent. Rising market
And the economic growth rate of countries with developing economies will be incremental by 1 percent.

Among emerging and developing Asia, China's growth rate will remain at 1.2 percent India's growth rate is estimated to be 1.9 per cent
said. It is mentioned in the outlook that the growth rate of ASEAN-5 will be incremental by 0.6 percent
|

Nepal's growth rate is 2.5 percent The Monetary Fund has said that Nepal's economic growth rate will be 2.5 percent this year. This is another multilateral
The development organization is equal to the projection made by the World Bank. Mudra Kosh said that the next year will be 2021
It is said that the growth rate of Nepal will be restored and maintained at 5 percent.

He said that the inflation rate will be between 6.7 percent and 7.5 percent. of covid 19
Priced due to supply cycle disruptions due to extended lockdowns to prevent infection
The inflation rate is likely to increase from last year's 4.6 percent due to pressure on the situation Tha has come

(News transaction, Baisakh 2, 2077) It is estimated that Covid-19 will cause a loss of 17 billion in Nepali industry

Global health health crisis, corona virus epidemic (Covid-19) in Nepali economy
The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has projected a loss of 16.95 billion rupees. The bank
In the latest updated report of the overall economy of Nepal released if of Covid-19
If the outbreak continues in its current state and the lockdown period is opened on March 25, the impact of this
At least 8 billion 55 million rupees worth of damage is projected. 1 of its GDP
Percentage is equal.

If this situation continues for a few weeks, the ratio of financial loss will increase to 13.85 billion and more

If it reaches more than one or two months, the financial loss of ADB will be up to 16 billion 95 million rupees
Economists have calculated. “Major economic activities due to nationwide lockdown
are stopped. Manufacturing industries have been closed during the lockdown, drug supply,
They operate in industries that produce essential goods such as food and dairy products s.
All offices are closed except for essential services,” the ADB report said.

 

“During the lockdown, domestic and international trade has decreased. Goods and Services Supply of services and
At the same time, the demand ratio has also decreased, which reflects the economic slowdown,'' the bank said
6, "If this situation becomes normal soon, there will be a decrease of 1 percent in the gross domestic product (GDP).
is.'

The bank's economists said a second scenario would require the nationwide lockdown to be extended by another week
All other currencies though imports of goods will continue A activity may be seriously affected
Based on estimates, it has been predicted that the damage may be up to 1.6 percent of the GDP. External in this case
Strong impact on income, negative impact on domestic production, increase in the number of Nepalis going abroad
The bank has mentioned that due to the shortfall, the remittance income will decrease massively.

Thousands of people living on daily wages due to the prolonged shutdown of the economy
It is mentioned in the bank's report that it will be pushed into poverty. The third scenario is due to Covid-19 in Nepal If the lockdown is extended for 1-2 months soon, there will be a loss of up to 2 percent of the Nepalese economy
has shown

The bank has projected three types of economic growth in all three scenarios. Opening the lockdown soon
5.3 percent in the current fiscal year if economic activity resumes, 4.8 percent if extended for a few weeks
It is said that only 4.3 percent economic growth rate will be achieved in the third scenario. of the status quo
The projection is less than 1 percent from the previous projection of 6.3 percent and 7.1 percent achieved last year
Estimated percentage growth It is less than about 2 percent.

The government is aiming to achieve an economic growth rate of 8.5 percent this year. Issued by ADB
The projection is the first domestic economic growth estimate released after the Covid-19 pandemic. For this estimate
ADB's economists have also assessed the regional impact.

According to sectoral estimates, if the lockdown is opened in a short period, the sectoral GDP of agriculture
(loss of 0.4 percent of GDP, 0.6 percent in the second scenario and up to 1 percent in the extended scenario
will reach like this, 1.3 percent in the GDP of industry in the short term if the lockdown is lifted, if extended for a few weeks
It will decrease by 2.6 percent and in extended cases by 3.1 percent. Likewise in the service sector in the short term
1.2 percent if the lockdown is opened, 1.8 percent if it is extended for a few weeks and 2.1 percent if it is prolonged
It is mentioned in ADB's report that there will be a percentage reduction.

Economists at the bank estimate wholesale and retail trade to 0.4 to 0.8 percent of sectoral GDP, hotels
and from 0.09 percent to 0.1 percent in the restaurant sector, in the transport, storage and communication sectors. Estimates of possible shortfall in overall GDP based on a loss of 0.1 to 0.6 percent of GDP
have done

However, ADB's economists seem to have underestimated the service sector in their calculations. Central Statistics
According to the department, tourism contributes 2 percent to the gross domestic product. This area is airy and
The worst affected are the ban on travel and bans on public gatherings.
While tourism businessmen are saying that the loss will be 40 billion, ADB economists from 44 million
66 crores of Rs They have only calculated the damage so far. Similarly, the transport, storage and communication sector accounts for 7.25 percent of the GDP. This area also now
Totally stuck and affected. Although some Satapati journeys are relaxed, traffic in the coming days
Operations will continue to be affected, as the fear of infection will continue. Likewise, wholesale and retail
Trade accounts for about 14 and a half percent. Decrease in industrial production, imports
This sector will be the next affected sector due to ongoing and potential shortages. In the first 7 months itself
Imports have decreased by 6 percent. amount This is a shortfall of around 2 trillion rupees. of ADB
In the projection, it is estimated that the damage will be between 1.83 billion to 3.80 billion rupees
. In reality, the damage can be much greater than this estimate.

Some economists estimate that the informal economy, the shadow economy, accounts for half of the total economic activity in Nepal
Due to occupying the share, even if the economic growth rate does not decline by a large number in the medium term
He warned that as the lockdown increased, it would affect the employment cycle and increase poverty by at least 2 percent
are

Nepal's Prof A large number of Nepali migrant workers are currently employed in all employment destinations
have lost Due to national and international lockdown, those workers have not been able to return to Nepal.
According to the Department of Foreign Employment, around 2 million Nepali workers are currently working abroad
are working as It is estimated that there are one million Nepalis in the neighboring country of India. Half of these labor force
Both the government and the private sector came back to Nepal to create jobs that the labor market here could afford
unable to

The problem of Covid-19 in the world economy As the effects of the economic depression caused by Bhav became more profound,
Its impact will also affect developing economies in Asia, ADB announced on Friday
Projected in Development Outlook-2020.

(News Transactions, Chait 21, 2076) Nepal's economic growth between 1.5 and 2.8 percent: World Bank

World Bank in 2020 economic growth of Nepal due to corona virus epidemic (Covid-19).
It said that it will be between 1.5 to 2.8 percent. This is another multilateral development organization, Asian Development
It is much less than the bank (ADB) estimate. ADB said between 4.3 and 5.3 percent this year
It was said that the economic growth rate will remain.

At least 1.5 to 2.8 this year in the “South Asia Economic Focus” published by the World Bank
The economic growth rate of Nepal is between percent In 2021, it will further deteriorate to 1.4 to 2.9 percent
It is projected to be in the middle. In the year 2022, there was some recovery in the economy from 2.7 to 3.6
According to the bank, it will be between percent.

Considering Nepal's population growth rate of 1.1 percent, per capita income has decreased for two consecutive fiscal years
will come," the bank said. Decrease in remittances, disruptions in border areas due to epidemics,
Due to contraction in trade and impact on other economic activities, Nepal's economy will shrink
The bank says. Bank due to this pandemic A further decline or contraction in services and industrial production
Lai has said that it will have more impact.

Expenditure on prevention and treatment of covid-19 infection, expenditure on increasing health facilities, high
Salaries, social security and local levels to spend on epidemic control
According to the report, the budget deficit will increase to 7.3 percent due to financial transfers. over here
According to the bank, the government's revenue will shrink due to slow economic growth and shrinking imports
is

According to the bank, there is limited resource utilization capacity Nepal's net gross domestic product this year
(GDP) will reach 35 percent. More so in tourism-dependent South Asian economies
The bank believes that it will have a serious impact. Due to the impact of Covid-19, the economy of the Maldives has been stagnating since 13
The report states that at least 8.5 percent will be incremental. The bank cited World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC)/Oxford Economics data.
Tourism and travel accounts for 7.9 percent of Nepal's gross domestic product (GDP).
has done The ratio is 66.4 percent in Maldives, which is projected to be the most affected.
The bank said that due to the outbreak of Covid-19, economic activity has stopped, business has declined,
All eight countries in the region are expected to experience a sharp economic downturn due to the contraction in the financial system
has done Bank this year South Asia's overall growth rate will fall between 1.8 and 2.8 percent, it said
is

(News transaction, Chait 30, 2076) Migrant Refugees in Crisis: World Bank

 

The World Bank reports that a large number of the labor force is informally employed and 2.8 million Nepalis abroad
In case of a sharp decline in labor income and remittances due to the impact of covid-19 while working
It is said that there is a crisis in dependent households. Financial year according to Nepal Rastra Bank
In the first 10 months of 2076/77, remittances into Nepal decreased by 6 percent compared to last year
Sixth, the World Bank has said that remittances will decline by an average of 20 percent this year.

the world A study on the employment sector of Nepal prepared by the bank (Job Diagnosis Nepal) report
With the deepening of the crisis of Covid-19, workers working in domestic and foreign destinations are rushing home
It is said that their livelihood is in trouble when they return. Immigrants in the current crisis
Banks say workers are no longer able to work or send remittances home to their families
is

With the Covid-19 crisis, a large proportion of workers have lost income and temporary or permanent employment
It is mentioned in the report that he experienced loss. Bank Vartam A severe supply crisis for the labor market
Although it started as a shock, it has now turned into a crisis of both demand and supply
It said that it is creating a delay in the restoration of the market. The current crisis is global and local
As supply chains collapse and the crisis drags on indefinitely, investment in industry and businesses
The bank said that this has had a serious impact on the overall economy, saying that it is discouraging to do so.

According to the bank, many manufacturing workers have lost their jobs after factories suspended production t
Excluded, mostly by large and small establishments, except for a few food business establishments
Wage and retail workers have been laid off. Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs)
They are now struggling to pay their employees due to lack of cash.
Social such as unemployment benefits for most self-employed and informal workers
Bank believes that they are in more trouble due to lack of insurance protection. “Thus the road to those who are in great trouble
Traders, home producers and agriculture Producers who are unable to ship their products to market
remain," the report said. Government of Nepal immediately for assistance to workers and commercial establishments in trouble
in the form of food aid, contribution to social insurance amount, food aid to essential families,
Discounts on electricity consumption and internet usage, discounts on private school fees, installment payments and tax payments
The bank has confirmed that it has made policy arrangements including extending the time period. “Away from crisis
And when Nepal's economy will enter the recovery phase, then the achievements in recent years
To protect the significant development gains made and b To identify existing labor related opportunities
Such initiatives will be important,' said the bank.

(news business, The emission within the nail will be reduced to 6 billion ULA

6 billion in remittances to Nepal in the financial year 2076/77 by the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
It has said that it will decrease in US dollars. 1 more than the estimate made by the Monetary Fund on April 14 last
2.39 billion dollars less than the estimate made by the Article Four Mission of the Monetary Fund
The dollar is low.

In the last financial year, the situation is normal as remittances equal to 7 billion 790 million US dollars have been received
If there were, it was estimated that remittances equal to 8 billion 40 million dollars would come in this year In Pali Mudra
It is estimated that around 9 billion rupees will be received in remittances, but now it seems that only around 6 and a half billion rupees will be received.
yes Although it seems that the money has been received more due to the difference in the regulatory rate in Nepali currency, international
Organizations measure in terms of dollars.

With the corona virus epidemic, the price of petroleum products in the global commodity market is historically low
Remittances into Nepal have been affected with the drop in levels. Nepal Rastra Bank in the current year 2076/77
20 percent reduction in remittances into Nepal Even though the initial estimate of the coming, the currency fund said
More than 23 percent said there would be a decrease.

Crisis caused by corona virus in Nepal's labor destinations including Gulf countries and Malaysia
The reason is that about 1 million Nepalis are in crisis of employment, according to different studies. These chiefs
About 60 percent of remittances come from the source destination alone. A single source for earning foreign currency
If remittances decrease like this in dependent Nepal, it creates a crisis in the country. By the government
Recently, there has been a research crisis in the country After this, correspondence has been sent to Mudra Fund for assistance
is The Monetary Fund has provided assistance to Nepal under the Rapid Credit Facility (RCF) of around 26 billion rupees
has been approved.

As the remittances decrease to a large extent, about 45 lakh households in the country are dependent on this income
First and has a serious impact," Dr. Economist. Raghuveer Bisht said, “That is the flow of money in the economy
It shrinks and deepens the economic recession in the country.' Remittance-dependent Nepali consumption-oriented economy
When it shrinks, it has a multifaceted effect. Bista says. "F Potatoes import about 15-16 per year Even if the percentage decreases, as the consumption decreases, the overall import will also decrease in the future, it said
From revenue mobilization of the government, the business of the financial sector will also be reduced," Arthashakhri Bista said
said

Since Nepal's financial sector is dependent on remittances as a whole, even though there is no collection of kran in the current year, Zenten
Dhani's bank-financial institutions will be trapped in a serious liquidity crisis in the coming year, he warned.

Banks and financials as imports fall due to the fall in remittances that accompany the international economic downturn
Institutionalized “Trust Disbursement and recovery of short term loans including receipt loans”, “over drafts”.
Both will shrink. Which will increase the proportion of bad loans in the financial sector. The flow of remittances is even higher
There is a possibility that the number may decrease, because 1 million Nepalese who are currently employed abroad are in crisis
The news has arrived," Dr. Economist. As the flow of remittances decreases, Bista said
It can increase the proportion of poverty in Nepal.'

(News transaction, May 29, 2077) Deposits within Nepal reduced by 14 percent: Visharbank

Due to the lockdown imposed by the World Bank to prevent the corona virus epidemic and its spread
This year, remittances in Nepal will decrease by 14 percent. In the financial year 2075/76
With a 14 percent decline in incoming remittances of 8 trillion 69 billion rupees, about 7 this year
It is seen that only 56 billion rupees worth of remittances will come in. This is in line with the projections made by the IMF.

In the internal “Staff Evaluation” of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Consumption balance data
According to the World Bank's new remittances this year, only 7 billion 350 million US dollars will be received
The study was made public. 8 billion 128 million Americans in Nepal in 2019
It is estimated by the bank that remittances equal to USD have been received. This is about 2 percent less than in 2018
It is mentioned in the bank's report. The amount of remittances the bank will receive in Nepal in 2020
It is not disclosed.

The bank also sources its staff assessment based on the IMF's balance of payments data
as Ul wrote. Bank for the global covid-18 epidemic and its prevention
Global remittance flows will drop by 20 percent due to extended travel restrictions and lockdowns
said. This is the steepest decline in remittance flows in history.

Migrant workers due to economic crisis caused by covid-19 in labor destination countries
According to the bank, there will be a decline in remittances due to loss of employment and income
is Low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) have low incomes of families
Remittances, which have been an important source for the bank, will decline by 19.7 percent
It is mentioned in the report.

Remittances play a significant role in poverty alleviation in low- and middle-income countries
Mentioning the decline in bank remittances, the reduction in spending in areas such as nutrition, education, and health
It has been mentioned that it will have a multi-dimensional effect on the livelihood of poor families.

of remittances to South Asia due to global economic slowdown and fall in oil prices
Flow 22 percent It is mentioned in the bank's report that it will decrease to 1 trillion 9 billion US dollars. Corona The influx of migrant workers due to the virus-induced global recession and travel restrictions
According to the bank, after the order is stopped, it will cause a contraction in the remittance flow.

However, with the improvement in the situation, in 2021, the region's remittance flow increased by 5.8 percent to 1 trillion.
It is mentioned in the report that it will reach 15 billion dollars. The bank is directly affected by the economic recession in the US, UK and
Due to the contraction in remittances from Europe and the contraction in global demand
What happened in oil prices?) Gulf a Member countries of the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (GCC) and
Remittances received from Malaysia will be affected.

According to the “Migration and Remittance Brief” released by the bank on Friday, South Asians
Among the countries, due to the global Great Recession caused by Covid-19, India has the highest at 23 percent
The decrease in remittances will decrease to 64 billion US dollars, while in Pakistan it will also decrease by 23 percent
Only 17 billion dollars will come in. Similarly, in Bangladesh, there was a decrease of 22 percent to 14 billion US dollars
Remittances in dollars fell by 19 per cent to Sri Lanka Shat said that there will be a decline.

(News transaction, May 12, 2077) 3.7 million Nepalis are in crisis due to unemployment

 

 

Extended house arrest for the spread of the Corona virus epidemic (Covid-19).
According to the International Labor Organization (ILO), the employment of 37 million Nepalis is in crisis
. ILO releasing a position paper on the impact of Covid-19 on Nepal's labor market
Four out of every five workers in the construction, manufacturing (industrial) and commercial sectors are at risk
reported

"Due to the current crisis, there has been an immediate disruption of 1.6 million to 2 million jobs in Nepal.
where There is either total unemployment or reduced working hours and wages,'' of the ILO
The position paper states, "As a result of the Covid-19 crisis, there has been a decrease in economic productivity
Because about 37 lakh workers earn for their livelihood from middle to high level
have lost.'

According to the ILO, 780,000 in the wholesale and retail sector due to prolonged house arrest
thousand, industrial sector 4 lakh 46 thousand, construction 4 lakh 4 thousand, transport sector 2 lakh 11
thousand, 62 thousand activities related to housing and food services and 83 thousand reais lystat,
Jobs in administrative and other service activities are in crisis. Covid-19 epidemic and 77 days
This is the third sectoral analysis of the ILO about the impact of house arrest on employment According to the position paper, women's labor participation is lower than men's in these most affected areas
The effect on them is also less.

"Overall, 631,000 women's employment is at risk in high-risk situations (total women
24.3 percent of the labor force) while 1.3 million men are employed (30.3 percent of the male labor force).
is at risk," the position paper said.

Tourism is the main source of employment and foreign exchange earnings in Nepal and it generates 573,000
This sector is more affected when people are employed It is mentioned in the deed. “Tourism
Three-quarters of workers in the sector are engaged in informal employment, with the sector stagnating
They are left with no security and no income,” the report said.

According to ILO, 80.8 percent of Nepal's 5.7 million or total employment is involved in the informal sector
Those involved in the construction, trade and production sectors that are not covered under the social security umbrella
The workers are said to be the most affected. “Due to economic downturn, illness or quarantine
For them if their work stops "There is no state-funded security umbrella," the ILO said
said

Due to the current crisis in the position paper, the income of 1.4 million domestic women workers in Nepal is uncertain
It is mentioned. “About 1.4 million domestic workers, almost all of whom are women
Yes, they produce goods for export. Global supply due to pandemic
This source of their livelihood is also at risk when it is blocked,' the ILO said.

The ILO also expressed serious concern about the plight of Nepalis who are employed abroad Ray's
3.5 million Nepali workers who are currently employed abroad in the status of employment are interrupted
It is mentioned that the remittances they send are also decreasing. Migrant workers due to the current crisis
Being prevented from returning to the country, having to lose income in the labor destination country
Concern has been expressed that they are facing health risks.

(News Transactions, May 27, 2077) 8.4 million Nepalese are 'affected' by poverty

In order to prevent the spread of the Corona Virus Epidemic (Covid-19), continuously since March 11th
A third of the country's households are “overwhelmed” by the extended lockdown
Studies have shown. Regular occupation, business, work stopped due to continuous house arrest
17 lakh 81 thousand 698 households due to the loss of income "Nepal's food security is over-affected
The study of monitoring system (NESCAP) has shown. This is 31.47 of the total number of households in the country
is the percentage.

2068 latest According to the census, considering 4.7 members per family, the corona virus epidemic
83 lakh 73 thousand 980 Nepalis due to house arrest imposed to prevent infection
"Studies show that they are over-influenced. Provincially - 3 lakh 27 thousand 736 in Province 1
families, 5 lakh 68 thousand 614 families in province 2, 3 lakh 69 thousand 500 families in Bagmati,
1 lakh 11 thousand 475 families in Gandaki, 1 lakh 83 thousand 969 families in Province 5, 93 in Karnali
1096 families and 127 thousand 338 families in the Far West “over-affected by the study
has shown

This p Households directly below or around the poverty line, homelessness increased by 75 days
Their life has become more difficult. Those who have lost their regular income
The risk of families falling into extreme poverty has increased. Local at the beginning of the house arrest for these families
Affected by the fact that the municipalities provided "some relief assistance" but that relief was given for a limited period
Household life has become difficult.

Including porters, readymade garment industry workers in construction sector, agriculture, transport, tourism and other sectors
informal sector , small traders, child care workers, senior citizens, persons with disabilities,
Pregnant women, orphans, people who have taken shelter in monasteries, monasteries, mosques, etc
Based on this, the government created an index of "over-impacted", which municipalities use as their own local
The standards were set based on the environment. 7 to 15 days on average in Province 1, 7 to 10 days in Province 2, 10 in Bagmati
to 12 days, 8 to 12 days in Gandaki, 8 to 10 days in Province 5 and Karnali and
Food aid (relief) was given only for 10 to 15 days in Far West.

Who gave what?

3 lakh 27 thousand 736 households in 113 municipalities out of 137 municipalities of Province 1 are "highly affected"
90 percent of them were given a 'relief package' lasting 7 to 15 days. of Province 1
15 to 25 kg of rice, 1-2 a Yellow lentils, 1-2 liters cooking oil, 1 kg salt 2
It is mentioned in the study of Nescap that soap was given. 131 out of 136 municipalities of Province 2
5 lakh 68 thousand 574 households “7 to 10 days to 80 percent of them for being over affected
A relief package was distributed. 15 to 25 kg of rice by municipalities of Province 2, 1-3
Kilo of pulses, 2 to 4 kilos of potatoes, 1-2 liters of cooking oil, 1-2 kilos of salt and 2-4 soaps.
were

Out of 114 municipalities of Bagmati Province, 119 municipalities have 69 thousand 500 households
85 percent of them for being “overwhelmed”. A 'relief package' lasting 10 to 12 days was distributed
. The municipalities of the province provide 4 kg of rice/person per family, 1 kg of pulses/9 persons, 2
Kg Dal/for 4 persons, 3 Kg Dal/for 7 persons and above, cooking oil per 3 persons
Half a liter, 1 kg of salt and a bar of soap were given to the family.

 

 

 

 

Out of the 85 municipalities of Gandaki province, 111,475 households in 83 municipalities are "highly affected".
The study mentions that 95 percent of them were distributed "relief packages" lasting 8 to 12 days
is of Province 5 1 lakh 83 thousand 969 households in 106 out of 109 municipalities are "highly affected"
90 percent of them were given a relief package lasting 8 to 12 days. of the province
Municipalities provide 5 to 50 kg of rice per family, half a kg to 2 kg of pulses, half
They gave one liter to one and a half liters of cooking oil, 1 kg of salt and one bar of soap.

The Ministry of Land Management, Agriculture and Cooperatives has established 44 “Agriculture
"Ambulance" is mentioned in the report. 77 out of 79 municipalities in Karnali
93 thousand And 96 households “are over-affected, with 70 percent of them getting 10 to 15 days' relief package" was distributed. Municipalities of the province 20 to 30 kg of rice per family, from 1 kg
2 kg pulses, 1 liter to 2 liters cooking oil, 1 kg salt were given.

Subsidies distributed by food and business companies to poor households in Humla, Dolpa, Mugu districts of the province
Dependent on relief. Subsidized rice being transported to Karnali through the company's Surkhet office
has come 93 thousand and 96 households in 77 out of 79 municipalities of Karnali are "highly affected"
70 percent of them were distributed a "relief package" lasting 10 to 15 days oh of the province
Municipalities provide 20 to 30 kg of rice, 1 kg to 2 kg of dal, 1 liter to 2 per family
Liter of cooking oil, 1 kg of salt were given. 1 lakh 27 thousand 338 from 88 municipalities of Far West
"Relief package" that will reach 90 percent of the households "for 10 to 15 days"
was distributed. The municipalities of the province provide 10 to 30 kg of rice, 2 to 3 kg of pulses,
FAT given 1 liter to 2 liters cooking oil, 1-2 kg salt and 1-2 soapy salt

 

(News Deal May 24, 2077) The worst economic impact of Covid-19 is in Bagmati province

State-wise Gross Domestic Product

ata 1
ae 34
on

 

Province 4
Karnali a 43
Dada

WT PAT TAME PAT, revised estimate of, as preliminary estimate

 

The biggest economic impact of the corona virus epidemic (Covid-19) has fallen on Bagmati province
Studies have shown. Calculation of Public Provincial Economic Growth Rate by Central Statistics Department
And this situation according to the preliminary description of the current economic situation of the public country by Nepal Rastra Bank
showed

Deshak by Bagmati It occupies about 26 percent of the total economy. Most of the country's economy
As the activity is concentrated in this province, the impact in this province will affect the overall national economy.
In the financial year 2075/76, the economic growth rate of this province was 6.4 percent due to corona virus
According to the statistics department, it will shrink to 1.2 percent in the year 2076/77 due to the impact. financial
After the decline in activity, the share of Bagmati in the overall economy of the country also decreased from 36.4 percent last year
It has decreased to 35.8 percent.

of Nepal Rastra Bank According to the first 9 months of the financial year 2076/77 i.e. till the middle of March
Kathmandu Valley has the highest price growth rate of 7.19 percent. This includes food and beverages
The price increase rate is the highest at 9.23 and the price increase rate of non-food group is 5.86 percent. After the corona virus infection started to increase widely, house arrest continued in the country from the 10th of Chait
has been done Due to this, when there is a disruption in the flow of goods and services, the rate of price increase has increased.
During this period, the price of vegetables has increased by 32.3 percent, while the price of fruits has increased by 25.81 percent
According to the National Bank, the price of pulses has increased by 14.4 percent. Grain prices by about 4 percent
has increased

Other provinces that are economically more affected due to Covid-19 are Province No. 5, 2 and Gandaki Province
have fallen Most of these are proportional to economic growth According to the central data, the province is number 2 if it loses more
The department said. The economic growth rate of Province No. 2 was 8.1 percent in the last financial year and this year
It will fall to 2.3 percent, while the economic growth rate of Province No. 5 was 6.8 percent in the last financial year
According to the data department, it will drop to 2 percent per year. These are the provinces of the Terai region. Of these, Province No. 5
14.2 percent of the total economy of the country and 13.8 percent of province No. 2. Nepal nation
According to the bank, till March, the rate of price increase in Terai was 7.04 p 6 percent, of which the cost of food and beverages
The highest growth rate is 10.35 percent. The economic growth rate of the country as a whole will shrink to 2.3 percent
When the preliminary details of the statistics department are divided into all provinces of the country, other provinces also
It is seen that the economic growth rate will decrease.

Apart from Terai region provinces, Gandaki province is among the losers. 6.7 percent in the last financial year
The economic growth rate of Gandaki, which has achieved growth rate, will decrease to 2.7 percent. This province mostly
Being dependent on tourism activities It seems to have an effect on economic growth. All tourism after March
Activity has stopped. Province No. 1 and Karnali Province have the least economic impact of Covid-19
It has been seen that the economic growth rate of the Far West is the highest even in times of crisis
is The growth rate of Province No. 3 will be 3.4 percent, Karnali 3.6 percent and Far West 4.1 percent.
|

(News Transactions, May 5, 2077) Bhartamanri wrote a letter to ATRMF asking for more help

Due to the corona virus epidemic in the public media, there will be no significant impact on the Nepali economy
Minister of Finance Dr. Yuvraj Khatiwada due to this financial
He has written to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) saying that the crisis is increasing. "This epidemic
Nepal's main sources of foreign exchange are remittances, tourism and commodity exports, which have had a serious impact.
It has caused a balance of payments crisis for Nepal," Ar Minister Dr. Khatiwada wrote to the Monetary Fund
The letter said.

Finance Minister Khatiwada said in public communication that this will not affect the economic growth rate of Nepal
Even if it comes, in the letter written to the IMF, the economic growth rate will decrease by 2 to 4 percent
mentioned. In the letter, it is mentioned that the government has to increase the budget for health and health related expenses
By doing so, it contributes 1.5 to 2 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP) to the government's tax revenue collection
It has been mentioned that there will be a decrease of up to percent. Current tax revenue collection per capita 21 of this product
is equal to percentage. The reduction in tax revenue collection in the proportion mentioned by the Finance Minister means that this is approx
Less revenue will be raised around 2 trillion rupees.

Due to the shortage of external sources in the letter, Nepal this year 400 million to 600 million US dollars
(about 48 billion 400 million to 72 billion 600 million rupees) will create a balance of payments deficit
is mentioned. To create 'dedicated' hospitals, quarantine for the prevention and treatment of Covid-19
And the government is prepared to spend 0.6 percent of GDP for other treatment procedures c Reco
It is mentioned in the letter written by the Finance Minister.

Likewise, due to food aid, electricity and internet charges, etc., there will be an increase in expenses
And due to the decline in revenue collection, the overall budget-finance deficit is 1.5 to 2 of GDP
According to the Minister of Finance, it will be expanded by 100%.

Mandatory cash balance and interest rate to address liquidity crisis in letter banking sector
The IMF has been informed that initiatives such as reduction have been taken. In this particular situation
Demand for Kran Minha as Nepal cannot pay the installments of IMF Kran including the government
Additional installments have been requested from the IMF under the Rapid Settlement Facility (RCF). Usually by the IMF During Nepal's balance of payments crisis, the average RCF of USD 100 million
Kran has been given under the facility.

The IMF has given up

Along with this request of the government, the IMF has kept the 6-month installments that Nepal has to pay under three tiers
1 crore 35 lakh for 24 months at the rate of 28 lakh 52 thousand SDR (Special Drawing Rights).

It has been decided to cancel the SDR. This is about 2.5 billion rupees (28 lakh 50 thousand US dollars).
equal to a dollar.

The Board of Directors of Mudra Fund has given 25 countries, including Nepal, “Castro Consignment and Relief Trust
It has been decided to provide assistance from (CCRT). About 4 more countries this week
will make a decision.